---
layout: post
title: Georgia Votes in Primary amid Cybersecurity Suit
date: 2018-05-22 17:02:39
tourl: https://www.infosecurity-magazine.com:443/news/georgia-votes-in-primary-amid/
tags: [law]
---
Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.Despite the continued development of a federal lawsuit regarding the cybersecurity of Georgia's voting machines against Georgia's Secretary of State Brian Kemp and others, today's highly competitive primary race for governor puts a focus on paperless voting machines, according to the Georgia is one of just five states with an all-electronic voting machine system that has no independent paper backup, leaving it especially vulnerable to election interference through hacking. Across the nation, about 20% of registered voters use paperless machines. While election officials are on board with upgrading these systems, they do say that the machines are accurate, according to the "In many jurisdictions, the multimillion-dollar cost is a hurdle," the "In Georgia, the cost to switch to paper-based machines in the state’s 159 counties ranges from $25 million to more than $100 million, depending on the technology adopted," the But issues with voting accuracy are not exclusive to statewide elections. On 15 May, the Security concerns, combined with all of the reported irregularities, have culminated in the law firm MorrisonFoerster partners David Cross and John Carlin are leading the team of attorneys working on the “The goal of the suit," said Cross, "is to get the state to switch to a system (before the November election) that includes voter-marked paper ballots so votes can be audited and verified. In the time remaining before the midterms, that could mean having everyone cast a paper absentee ballot as one means of achieving this goal in the short term."There are also varying options for long term solutions based on examples from other states. "The primary vulnerability is the ability to alter votes cast via DREs without a paper record to audit or otherwise verify the electronic voting records. Other vulnerabilities include the manner in which [Georgia] has stored voter registration information and the ability to access and even alter that information in ways that could affect the election. For example, a hacker could change assigned polling locations for certain voters to create confusion when they go to vote and effectively prevent them from voting,” Cross said.