---
layout: post
title: Tech companies to disclose foreign software probes under US Bill: Report
date: 2018-05-25 03:01:13
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/tech-companies-to-disclose-foreign-software-probes-under-us-bill-report/
tags: [China,attack,bill,Department of Homeland Security,DHS,draft,NSA,GDPR]
---
 tA piece of proposed legislation reportedly facing the United States Senate would force US tech companies to divulge whether they permit nations including China and Russia to examine the source code of software they sell to the US military, a report has said. t tBeing able to search and find such vulnerabilities could make it easier for nations that are a "cybersecurity threat" to attack US systems, according tot tThe Bill still needs to pass the full Senate and be reconciled with the House of Representatives version of that legislation before being signed by US President Donald Trump,t tUnder the Bill, tech companies may have to limit the use of the software to non-classified areas of government if its source code has been reviewed by a foreign nation, the report said, with the details of such reviews and the steps taken by the tech company to then be "stored in a database accessible to military officials". tThe publication pointed out that the Bill's drafting followedt tThe US government has been cracking down on tech and software from Russia and China, with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) last year ordering federal agencies tot t"This action is based on the information security risks presented by the use of Kaspersky products on federal information systems," DHS said at the time. t"Kaspersky anti-virus products and solutions provide broad access to files and elevated privileges on the computers on which the software is installed, which can be exploited by malicious cyber actors to compromise those information systems." tEarlier this month,t t tIn addition, the draft legislation imposes higher taxes on any income from China being made by US multinational companies, as well as levelling duties and caps on shares held by Chinese investors in some US companies. t"How America responds to the growing threats posed by China is the single most important geopolitical issue of our time, and will define the 21st century," Republican Marco Rubio said at the time. tThe heads of the CIA, FBI, NSA, and the director of national intelligence to the Senate Intelligence Committee had also recommended in February that Americanst tAftert tUS President Donald Trump hadt t tExclusive: The exposed lookup tool let anyone run a customer's phone number -- and obtain their home address and account PIN, used to contact phone support. t tPart two: Auditing data on premise and in the cloud, spurring innovation in machine learning and interpretable AI, and influencing organizations, consumers, and legislation all over the world, GDPR is here to stay. t tPresident Trump reportedly sees security procedures as too inconvenient. Unfortunately, he's not alone. t tSecurity measures and other IT controls don't work unless they're implemented consistently, predictably, and with integrity. t tWith data breaches rapidly becoming multi-million dollar events, could the only solution be increasing IT budgets and giving tech leaders a bigger voice in organizational decision making? t tEnclaveDB is a research project from Imperial College London and Microsoft that uses trusted hardware to protect that data.