---
layout: post
title: Chrome 67 is out: Password-free logins get closer, plus bug fixes, better AR-VR support
date: 2018-05-30 13:00:25
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/chrome-67-is-out-password-free-logins-get-closer-plus-bug-fixes-better-ar-vr-support/
tags: [WebAuthn]
---
 t tGoogle has released stable Chrome 67 for Windows, Mac and Linux, bringing 34 security fixes and default support for WebAuthn, the new specification aimed at killing off passwords. tAstChrome 67 also introducestGoogle suggests the accelerometer could use the motion of the device to move around in a 3D video. Other available sensors include the gyroscope, orientation sensor, and motion sensors. t tBesides games, the API caters to a range of other applications including immersive 360-degree videos, 2D or 3D videos presented in immersive surroundings, data visualization, home shopping, and art. tHPKP or HTTP public key pinning (HPKP), a web security standard developed by Google, has now been deprecated in Chrome 67. GoogletGoogle is also widening the rollout of Chrome's site-isolation security feature, which is part of its mitigation for Spectre speculative side-channel CPU attacks.tGoogletFinally, Google fixed 34 security bugs in Chrome, 24 of which were reported by external researchers. Google lists nine high-severity flaws, 12 medium-severity flaws, and three low-severity issues. t tGoogle will launch a new service to protect politicians and senior executives from sophisticated phishing attacks. t tBut the difference between Chrome and Edge has shrunk dramatically over the past two years. t tMicrosoft says a fix is on the way for early adopters of the Windows 10 April 2018 Update with Chrome problems. t tGoogle wrote the HTTP public key pinning standard but now considers the web security measure harmful. t tGoogle has rolled out two new tools to combat phishing, and upped Gmail security.