---
layout: post
title: Australian National University still tight-lipped on system breach
date: 2018-07-09 00:02:13
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/australian-national-university-still-tight-lipped-on-system-breach/
tags: [Attack,China,Law]
---
 tAfter it was revealed on Friday that computer systems at the Australian National University (ANU) had been compromised, the university said on Monday it is still seeking advice from the federal government, months after the threat was found. tThe breach, first reported bytThe finger has been pointed at the Chinese government, with the initial report stating federal government officials had confirmed that the cyber attack was launched from China and that the ANU computer network was significantly compromised. t"We can assume this cyber intrusion has involved the theft of information. The question is 'what was sucked out and how sensitive is it?'" a national security official is quoted as telling Fairfax reporters. tOthertMeanwhile Australian Minister for Law Enforcement and Cyber Security Angus Taylor, who has on multiple occasions said it is important to publicly attribute cyber attacks to nation states, would not confirm that China was behind the incident, saying instead he condemns any malicious activity against the country. tThe university confirmed it had been working with intelligence agencies for several months to minimise the impact of the threat. t"Over the past several months the university has been working in partnership with Australia government agencies to assess the scale and minimise the impact of the threat," the university told students in an email. "We continue to seek and take advice from Australian government agencies." tANU told ZDNet current assessments indicate that no staff, student, or research information has been taken and "counter-measures are being undertaken". tAlso on Friday, the federal government officiallytAt tAlmost 12 months since Canberra announced plans for a decryption silver bullet, Minister for Law Enforcement and Cyber Security Angus Taylor said the legislation is still on its way and it's one of his personal priorities. t tA prime minister that understands the seriousness of cybersecurity combined with cross-government and public-private information sharing initiatives has sent Australia to the fore, according to Minister for Law Enforcement and Cyber Security Angus Taylor. t tThe Australian government has joined the United Kingdom and the United States in blaming the Kremlin for NotPetya attacks. t tThe Russian-based security vendor met with the prime minister's office to tout its new transparency centre initiative and proactively prevent the Australian government from following the United States in banning its use. t tDr. Richard Ford, Chief Scientist at Forcepoint, discusses how cyber attacks undermine confidence in our institutions, the dangers of "cyber fatigue," and how AI is where the battle for cyber safety will be won or lost.