---
layout: post
title: Timehop breach hits 21 million users due to a lack of 2FA on cloud services
date: 2018-07-09 00:02:14
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/timehop-breach-hits-21-million-users-due-to-a-lack-of-2fa-on-cloud-services/
tags: [Law,Attack,China,GDPR]
---
 tTimehop, a service that surfaces a user's past social media content, has As a result, the company has voided all social media authorisation tokens it held, and is alerting its users. Around 4.7 million phone numbers were breached, alongside its usernames and email addresses. Timehop said no financial data was affected, nor social media content, and there has been no evidence of any improper account access. t"A small number of records included a name, a phone number, and an email address; a somewhat larger number included a name and phone number; a larger number included a name and an email address," the company said. "No financial data, private messages, direct messages, user photos, user social media content, social security numbers, or other private information was breached." tThe intrusion began just after 2pm EST on July 4, and ended two hours and 19 minutes later when the attackers were locked out, Timehop said. t"The breach occurred because an access credential to our cloud computing environment was compromised. That cloud computing account had not been protected by multifactor authentication," it said. tIn anothert"Once we recognised that there had been a data security incident, Timehop's CEO and COO contacted the board of directors and company technical advisors; informed federal law enforcement officials; and retained the services of a cybersecurity incident response company, a cybersecurity threat intelligence company; and a crisis communications company," Timehop said. tWith the company voiding its social media tokens, users will need to reauthenticate each service to continue using Timehop. tLast week, Linux distribution GentootThe attacktDue a lack of two-factor authentication, once the attacker guessed an admin's password, the organisation was in trouble. t"The attacker gained access to a password of an organisation administrator. Evidence collected suggests a password scheme where disclosure on one site made it easy to guess passwords for unrelated web pages," the incident report said. tGentoo now has a requirement for two-factor authentication to join its GitHub organisation.Location data revealed the home addresses of intelligence officers -- even when their profiles were set to private.Reports have indicated the breach originated in China, with the finger pointed at the Chinese government.One of the key requirements of the newly enacted GDPR is a demonstrated effort to enforce security measures that safeguard customer data. This bundle includes six policies you can customize and implement...Thermanator harvests thermal energy to steal passwords directly from your fingertips.Utilizing a cURL request and the string of letters, researcher obtained a cleartext password.As Bitcoin grows in popularity, potential buyers need to be aware of risks that go along with it.