---
layout: post
title: We came, we roamed, we reported.
date: 2018-06-26 15:00:32
tourl: https://blogs.cisco.com/ciscoit/we-roamed-we-reported-clus-2018
tags: [CIO]
---
tttAt Cisco Live, it’s easy to be inundated by continuous content, scintillating stories, and definitely dizzying days. From the opening to the closing keynotes, it has been a phenomenal experience. We heard from various speakers about Dev Net, The Network. Intuitive., big data’s role in driving actionable customer insights, and much more.As IT Roaming Reporters, we have learned more about the power of the network, future of Cisco, and customers’ essential value.  Together, we have fostered camaraderie, improved our digital storytelling skills, and made some new friends along the way. Guillermo Diaz Jr., Senior Vice President and CIO of Cisco, stated in his opening keynote at the IT Management (ITM) Program that, “We must know where we came from in order to know where we’re going.” As we reflect on our experiences, we’ll take these words to heart by processing what we’ve learned and move toward our futures.We were blown away to hear from As we return to our offices in Raleigh, NC; San Jose, CA; Boulder, CO; and Richardson, TX we are imbued with a renewed sense of purpose. We worked together as a team, met with customers and Cisco employees, and even visited Universal Studios!  We are thankful for the memories and know Cisco Live Orlando 2018 serves as a valuable chapter in our Cisco stories. We are enthusiastic to see what comes next and want to thank everyone we met. Thanks Chuck Robbins, IT Management team, Cisco Networking Academy students, Cisco ITM Scholars, Cisco customers, and everyone who joined us this year. We hope you enjoyed the breakout sessions, learned about our latest technologies, and had fun. Next stop, Cisco Live San Diego 2019!The fun and memories do not have to end here. To watch our videos and reminisce about all of the excitement from the week, please view them here on our Our closing video shown at the IT Management Program can we seen here below:All the Best, We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join 