---
layout: post
title: Windows 10 Insider Build 17692 Released. Here's Whats New!
date: 2018-06-14 20:00:59
tourl: https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/microsoft/windows-10-insider-build-17692-released-heres-whats-new/
tags: [frame]
---
Today Microsoft released Windows 10 Insider Preview Build 17692 (Redstone 5) to insiders in the fast and skip ahead rings. This build adds a bunch of new features such as SwiftKey becoming the new touch keyboard, Edge getting autoplay video controls, search improvements, and more.With this build, the SwiftKey app will now be used as the Windows 10 touch keyboard. As Microsoft has added video autoplay controls into Microsoft Edge to control whether videos are autoplayed on sites that you visit. Microsoft has added an early preview of this feature under “Advanced Settings” - “Allow sites to automatically play media.”For those who wish to test Edge using WebDriver, in this build WebDriver is added as an optional feature. This allows you to install the correct version of WebDriver on the version of Windows that you are using.A new Ease of Access setting has been added that allows you to make the text larger throughout Windows 10. This includes on the Start Menu, File Explorer, Win32 apps, and even UWP apps.To access this setting you can go to  SettingsEase of AccessDisplay and you will see a “Make everything bigger” slider that you can use to make the text smaller and larger.Microsoft has stated that there are some known bugs when it comes to changing DPI settings and some issues with text clipping when using this feature.In this release, Microsoft added some improvements to the Game Bar. These include the ability to adjust the audio volume, change the default output device, and see frame rate, CPU usage, GPU memory usage, and system memory usage.Microsoft has also added the ability to improve the gaming experience on Desktop PCs by enabling the "Dedicate resources" option in the Game Bar. Search has been improved so that you can easily download programs from the Internet directly from within the Start Menu. This feature is a server-side change, so users of other insider builds may see this as well.With this build you can stream audio to both your mixed reality headset and to your computer's speakers at the same time. To enable this feature, shut down all Mixed Reality apps, including the Mixed Reality Portal, and go to to SettingsMixed realityAudio and speech and enable “When Mixed Reality Portal is running, mirror headset audio to desktop.” 