---
layout: post
title: Cisco: Patch now, attackers are exploiting ASA DoS flaw to take down security
date: 2018-06-28 11:00:58
tourl: /article/cisco-patch-now-attackers-are-exploiting-asa-dos-flaw-to-take-down-security/
tags: [exploit,attack]
---
 t tAfter observing attacks on customers, Cisco is telling users to install the fix for a recently disclosed denial-of-service flaw affecting a number of its security appliances. tThe flaw, tracked as CVE-2018-0296, was detailed in an advisory on June 6 and affects Cisco ASA Software and Cisco Firepower Threat Defense (FTD) Software. tVulnerable products include 3000 Series Industrial Security Appliance (ISA), ASA 1000V Cloud Firewall, ASA 5500 Series Adaptive Security Appliances, ASA 5500-X Series Next-Generation Firewalls, ASA Services Module for Cisco Catalyst 6500 Series Switches and Cisco 7600 Series Routers, Adaptive Security Virtual Appliance (ASAv), Firepower 2100 Series Security Appliance, Firepower 4100 Series Security Appliance, Firepower 9300 ASA Security Module, and FTD Virtual (FTDv). t"Cisco strongly recommends that customers upgrade to a fixed software release to remediate this issue," Omar Santos of Cisco's Product Security Incident Response Team warned on June 22. tThe attacks follow the publication of proof-of-concept exploits for the flaw. Santos notes that a unauthenticated, remote attacker could cause a device to reload unexpectedly and cause a denial-of-service (DoS) condition.t tAdditionally, an exploit could cause a DoS or unauthenticated disclosure of information. However, SantostCisco has alsotThe researcher who found the flaw, Micha? Bentkowski from Polish security firm Securitum, gave a brief description oftIn atBentkowsky reported the issue to Cisco as a way to use directory-traversal techniques to disclose information to an unauthenticated attacker.tCisco labeled its primary impact as a DoS condition, but said it is possible that on certain releases of ASA a device reload would not occur, yet still allow an attacker to use directory-traversal techniques to view sensitive system information. tBleeping Computert tYou'll need to wade through Cisco's advisories to work out if software you're running is vulnerable or already fixed. t tCisco's software for managing software-defined networks has three critical, remotely exploitable vulnerabilities. t tHackers use Cisco gear to send Russia a message not to mess with US elections. t tCisco urges Smart Install client users to patch and securely configure the software. t tCisco patches a severe flaw in switch deployment software that can be attacked with crafted messages sent to a port that's open by default.The attack targets the Cisco Smart Install Client, and as many as 168,000 systems could be vulnerable.