---
layout: post
title: World Cup scams: how to avoid an own goal
date: 2018-06-01 12:00:26
tourl: https://www.welivesecurity.com/2018/06/01/world-cup-scams-avoid-goal/
tags: [act,law,exploit]
---
Whether travelling to enjoy the matches in person, or watching from home, fans should be on the lookout for foul playtttttttttttttttHave you been looking forward to the One common method is to tout a variety of “wares” in large-scale campaigns: cheap match tickets, ticket-inclusive hospitality packages, accommodation-booking services, flights to match-hosting cities, to name just a few. These “bargains” are typically hawked via fraudulent emails or social media posts and messages that, as is their wont, play on people’s emotions. Who doesn’t like a good deal, after all?Naturally, there’s a Fraudsters also impersonate FIFA, its sponsors, or event sponsors and partners such as Visa, Adidas or Coca-Cola, to send missives to congratulate you on your “win” in a lottery. In order for your “prize” to be released, they will ask for your personal details and/or request a payment upfront in a kind of “advance-fee scam”.Other scams may focus on travel visas or the Even if you have no intention of visiting a World Cup venue, you may receive an email or social media message that contains a malicious attachment or link, supposedly to games, apps, footage of highlights, videos with hot news about players, or other tempting content. With the “help” of malware such as a banking Trojan implanted on your machine after you open the attachment or click the link, the attackers may extract your financial information.In another common scenario, you may be offered to watch games for free on a malicious – or legitimate, but compromised – live-streaming website. All that you’re then asked to do is download additional software or update an existing program (such as Flash Player), but you inadvertently end up compromising your computer with malware or unwanted software such as adware or a browser hijacker.Attackers may also gain access to your personal data when you connect to a public Wi-Fi hotspot. They can set up a rogue hotspot that can sport a generic name like “Free Wi-Fi” and act like a decoy. Even the use of a legitimate Another threat looming large over tourists is ATM scams. Russian law enforcement officials recently issued a warning about fraudsters buying retired cash machines with the aim of refitting them so as to target tourists. There is also good ol’ FIFA has Basic online defenses apply here, too. This includes being astute in Don’t assume that a website is legit, just because it has that comforting green padlock (i.e. HTTP Secure/HTTPS sign) to the left of the URL. A Likewise, don’t assume that a public Wi-Fi network is legit. Even if they’re not set up by cybercriminals, many public wireless access points (WAPs) can leave you vulnerable to dangers simply because they’re unsecured. Attackers can easily use an As for not falling victim to ATM skimming, the simplest precaution is to use cash machines in high-traffic areas, together with keeping a keen eye for anything that looks out of the ordinary or that shows that the machine may have been tampered with.As we inch closer to the World Cup, the attackers will seek to exploit the fever that will increasingly grip footie fans. Anything related to the tournament and players will be hot news, which ultimately increases the likelihood that a victim will click a malicious link or open a malicious attachment. At the risk of repeating ourselves, the bottom line is never to succumb to the temptation if the message comes from an unknown sender, or if it is an unsolicited message from a known sender, since it’s easy to 