---
layout: post
title: Tesla's Tough Lesson on Malicious Insider Threats
date: 2018-06-19 17:00:48
tourl: https://www.infosecurity-magazine.com:443/news/teslas-tough-lesson-on-malicious/
tags: [act]
---
Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.The potential damages a company can suffer from malicious insiders became a harsh reality for As Musk noted, when an employee engages in such illicit activity, it is usually an act of revenge. "His stated motivation is that he wanted a promotion that he did not receive. In light of these actions, not promoting him was definitely the right move.""This is a major reminder as to why privileged access management is a must-have for organizations that deal with sensitive information or personal information and why least privileged is a practice being adopted by many organizations,” said Joseph Carson, chief security scientist at However, in a recent Raytheon-commissioned "Taking things at face value, this [act of sabotage] is basically a smorgasbord of cybercrime, and it could have affected any company anywhere. You have an insider threat. You have altered data affecting the factory operating system. You have leaked proprietary data. You have credential theft. And you have it all, apparently, at the hands of a disgruntled employee. It’s time to make insider threat a top priority," said Michael Daly, CTO, cybersecurity at The reality that employees can act without regard for the best interest of the company will likely be a major lesson for Tesla, but it's not its only struggle right now. It also confronts ongoing issues in its electric vehicle plant. Less than 24 hours after alerting employees to the sabotage, Musk shared 