---
layout: post
title: Transparency and the CLOUD Act: The Importance of Evolving Transparency Reports
date: 2018-07-09 00:02:11
tourl: https://blogs.cisco.com/security/transparency-and-the-cloud-act-the-importance-of-evolving-transparency-reports
tags: [Act]
---
tttAs organizations navigate the rapid and constant change of digital transformation, they look for vendors who can deliver and partners they can trust to guide them on the journey. With that in mind, today’s edition of our Finally, and most notably, we are also including a new category to call out requests for customer data Cisco has received in relation to the Not only have we added new categories to our Transparency Report– such as the CLOUD Act – but we’ve also made enhancements to make it easier for our customers to read and interpret these requests. Our new format also breaks down how the numbers in the report are derived. To us, it is much more than a ‘check box,’ it is an opportunity to give our customers the clarity that is and will continue to be required in a data-centric economy.The last example I will share is how we regularly integrate company acquisitions into our Transparency Reports. It’s no secret that Cisco is We know our customers and partners are going through continuous transitions and regularly dealing with complexity. Nothing is going to stop change, it is constant. Which is why it is more important now than ever to give our customers the stability of transparency. Through our actions, our message to our customers is that even as the world changes around us, our commitment to transparency and earning their trust is unwavering.For more about our long-term commitment to transparency check out our   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join 