---
layout: post
title: What’s all the buzz about integrated, threat-driven CDM?
date: 2018-06-21 17:01:15
tourl: https://blogs.cisco.com/government/whats-all-the-buzz-about-integrated-threat-driven-cdm
tags: [Department of Homeland Security,DHS,National Institute of Standards and Technology]
---
tttThe rollout of the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation (CDM) Program has been a game changer for government agencies. And whether you realize it or not, you’re just getting to the good part. As you leave Phases 1 and 2 behind (who and what is on the network) and Getting your agency’s CDM approach in line with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) guidelines definitely helps you meet compliance. And, in general, CDM can help speed your deployment times and streamline processes because it lets you use industry-leading, commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) tools. Since this is all good for government, we often stop right there as far as the value we see in CDM. But the truth is, CDM is about more than just meeting compliance.When it comes to selecting the right CDM approach for your agency, not all DHS approved solutions are equal. You can now add even more value by leveraging integrated, threat-driven security via a variety of simple, open, and automated solutions. And best of all, you may be able to do so using much of your existing infrastructure.The Internet of Things (IoT) is here to stay, and with the federal move to the cloud, it is becoming the key method of connectivity for millions of end users and their devices. As a result, security can be complex. But the resolution is often a matter of buying whatever tool is available to gain a temporary fix. After a few fixes, the complexity becomes overwhelming and in some cases, unsustainable, as your network slows to a crawl (which, ironically, is the same goal as your adversaries).Securing this flood of IoT data is probably the biggest challenge facing government today. To address this, the government needs integrated and secured networks that can scale with the explosion of data, devices and sensors. This means moving beyond prevention, detection, and response to deploy predictive, proactive capabilities. This requires continuous visibility and validation that is fully integrated at every level and working 24/7 to model behaviors that signal a red flag for your network.As the IoT evolves, it will bring new opportunities and threats to your agency’s doorstep. So you’ll need to embed the following characteristics into your network to stay secure:The evolving, dynamic threat landscape requires a holistic and integrated, threat-driven network; one that can accurately map emerging threats and evolve as they do. Basically, a new approach to network security. But how can you “reimagine” traditional network security to face these growing threats? Simple, you make it intuitive.One solution stands out from other DHS CDM approved solutions in this regard. It’s the Machine learning and artificial intelligence are key to the future of networking and security. Together, they can power intuitive networks that are constantly learning, adapting, and protecting. And the approach truly is intuitive; the more it’s used, the wiser it becomes.The Intuitive Network weaves the security industry’s largest and most comprehensive integrated portfolio of cybersecurity products and offerings. Plus, it empowers your agency with one of the world’s leading cyber-threat intelligence organizations, the Building your agency’s integrated and intuitive network for CDM might seem complicated. You may have questions like how do you start and do you have to overhaul your entire infrastructure? The answers may be simpler than you realize since your existing Cisco security investments are already on the CDM Approved Products list.Via Webex/Wednesday, June 27 eBook: The official DHS CDM website at Talos Intelligence at Cisco Cybersecurity Solutions for Government at   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join 