---
layout: post
title: Effects of Cyber-Attack Still Unfolds for Atlanta
date: 2018-06-07 21:00:26
tourl: https://www.infosecurity-magazine.com:443/news/effects-of-cyber-attack-still/
tags: [attack]
---
Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.Even though it's been more than two months and At a 6 June Department of Atlanta Information Management (AIM) The city continues to work with private and government partners to understand the full scope of the attack's impact, but Atlanta's interim chief information office, Daphne Rackey, reportedly said that the number of impacted applications is more than 30% of the 424 mission critical programs. That number "seems to grow every day," Rackey reportedly told the Atlanta city council.The attack, which came with the demand for $51,000 worth of Bitcoin that the city said it did not pay, encrypted city files, leaving customers unable to access city applications. Information on Several different agencies are said to have told the city council on 6 June that their workplace has yet to return to normal. "This has been painful on many fronts," Atlanta police chief Erika Shields told WSB-TV in a live interview on 1 June. Referring to the police dashcam data that was lost in the attack, Shields said, "That is lost and will not be recovered. That could compromise potentially a DUI case."It's unclear what has been most painful for the department, however, because Shields also said that she is not overly concerned. "It's a tool, a useful tool, but the dashcam doesn't make cases for us."Perhaps the greatest pains come from trying to investigate existing cases. A police department investigator, Matthew Condland, whose 105,000 files were corrupted, cited the attack as the primary reason he has yet to produce a key piece of evidence. Others expressed dismay over the dissemination of information since the attack, even though Atlanta implemented a new employee notification system, NotifyATL, after the attack.The website's 