---
layout: post
title: ?VPNFilter malware now targeting Asus, D-Link, Huawei, ZTE devices
date: 2018-06-07 03:00:54
tourl: /article/vpnfilter-malware-now-targeting-asus-d-link-huawei-zte/
tags: [MikroTik,Exploitation]
---
The new strain of malware known as VPNFilter is targeting more makes and models of devices and boasting additional capabilities, including the ability to deliver exploits to endpoints and override reboots, Cisco Talos has reported. Cyber attacks and malware are one of the biggest threats on the internet. Learn about the different types of malware - and how to avoid falling victim to attacks. tOriginally, Talos found VPNFilter hadtAs of May 24, the known devices affected by the malware were Linksys, MikroTik, Netgear, and TP-Link networking equipment in the small and home office space, as well at QNAP network-attached storage (NAS) devices. tIn a newtNew devices were also discovered from Linksys, MikroTik, Netgear, and TP-Link -- but the Cisco-owned company said no Cisco network devices are affected. tIn addition to adding new devices to the list, Talos said it discovered a new stage 3 module -- named "ssler" -- that injects malicious content into web traffic as it passes through a network device, which allows the actor to deliver exploits to endpoints via a man-in-the-middle capability. t"With this new finding, we can confirm that the threat goes beyond what the actor could do on the network device itself, and extends the threat into the networks that a compromised network device supports," the blog explains. tDespite the FBI urging small businesses and households totSsler provides data exfiltration and JavaScript injection capabilities by intercepting all traffic passing through the device destined for port 80 -- delivering malicious payloads to devices connected to the infected network. Talos expects the ssler module to be executed using a parameter list, which determines the module's behaviour and which websites should be targeted. tAny outgoing web requests on port 80 are then intercepted by ssler and can be inspected and manipulated before being sent to the legitimate HTTP service, the researchers explained. tAnother stage 3 module -- device destruction module (dstr) -- which provides any stage 2 module that lacks the kill command the capability to disable the device, has also been found by Talos. tIt triggers a kill command for routers after self-destruction and then deletes the rest of the related files, removing traces of the VPNFiler malware from the device and then rendering the device unusable. tAccording to Talos, its new discoveries have shown the threat from VPNFilter continues to grow. t"In addition to the broader threat surface found with additional targeted devices and vendors, the discovery of the malware's capability to support the exploitation of endpoint devices expands the scope of this threat beyond the devices themselves, and into the networks those devices support," the researchers wrote. t"If successful, the actor would be able to deploy any desired additional capability into the environment to support their goals, including rootkits, exfiltration capability, and destructive malware." tKnown infected devices include: tMalware targeting Upvel has also been found; however, no devices have been isolated by the vendor. t tCisco's Talos has published preliminary findings of the VPNFilter malware, which is targeting mostly consumer internet routers from a range of vendors, with some consumer NAS devices also hit. t tThe FBI is recommending that all small business and home router owners reboot devices, even if they're not among the brands known to be affected. t tGerman intelligence services and federal specialists are investigating "an IT security incident". t tCisco's Talos Intelligence uncovered a malware campaign targeting router and NAS products, but government intervention may have neutralized the threat.