---
layout: post
title: Microsoft: We're giving you all Euro-style GDPR rights over how we use your data
date: 2018-05-22 12:51:13
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/microsoft-were-giving-you-all-euro-style-gdpr-rights-over-how-we-use-your-data/
tags: [GDPR,law]
---
Microsoft has announced it will extend the rights available to Europeans under the EU's new privacy regulation to all consumers across the world. The General Data Protection Regulation comes into effect this Friday, introducing a range of new Data Subject Rights for EU residents, such as the right to obtain data a company has collected, and to request the deletion of data if the user no longer consents to a company holding it. Consumers also have the right to take data to another service provider, and to know how a company is processing their data. Rather than enabling these rights only for European consumers, Microsoft will provide them to all consumers. "As an EU regulation, GDPR creates important new rights specifically for individuals in the European Union. But we believe GDPR establishes important principles that are relevant globally," "We will extend the rights that are at the heart of GDPR to all our consumer customers worldwide."Facebook in April However, the company also said it would offer the same privacy controls and settings available to Europeans under GDPR to the rest of the world. Microsoft-owned LinkedIn in May Microsoft has updated its privacy statement with new language required by GDPR and to reflect its promise to offer all users the same access rights as its EU users have. "If Microsoft obtained your consent to use your personal data, you can withdraw that consent at any time," "You can request access to, erasure of, and updates to your personal data; and if you'd like to port your data elsewhere, you can use tools Microsoft provides to do so, or if none are available, you can contact Microsoft for assistance."The statement also clarifies that users can object to or restrict Microsoft's use of personal data for direct-marketing purposes or if Microsoft is "pursuing our legitimate interests or those of a third party". "You may have these rights under applicable laws, including the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), but we offer them regardless of your location," Microsoft states. Google has also Google is also rolling out its Family Link Android app to all countries within the EU. Until now the Family Link service Google will be emailing millions of its users to tell them about its redesigned privacy policy.Here's how the social media giant is updating privacy policies ahead of the EU's new data law.Part one: Why are most organizations still not ready for GDPR? And what are the implications and mechanisms of applying GDPR provisions for companies, individuals, and regulators?Amid the ongoing trust crisis, Facebook users get an easier way to download their data and new mobile privacy settings.Google quietly removes its famous 'Don't be evil' motto, which used to figure in the opening to its code of conduct.