---
layout: post
title: Can Russian hackers be stopped? Here's why it might take 20 years
date: 2018-06-15 19:00:55
tourl: /article/can-russian-hackers-be-stopped-heres-why-it-might-take-20-years/
tags: [China,hack,FIREEYE,law,attack,NATO,NSA]
---
 t t t tIn the spring of 2015, faced with external cyberattacks on the US of increasing frequency and severity, President Obama made a dramatic announcement. t t tThe level of hacking and cyber-espionage against the US had created an "unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy" of the country, said the President, who declared a national emergency to deal with the threat. Thist t t tSince then the national emergency has been extended three times (it must be reconfirmed every year), but the attacks against the US and its allies continue. t t tIndeed, the ongoing state of emergency did little to deter the most spectacular anti-US hacking campaign in recent years:t t t tRussia is not alone in pursuing cyberattacks-- t t t tDespite years of sanctions, indictments, and other attempts to combat hackers, the attacks have continued. And experts have warned it could be 20 years before the situation is brought under control. So why can't the hackers be stopped? t t t tIt's not that the US hasn't tried to deter cyberattacks, rather that the techniques the country and its allies have used so far haven't been very effective at stopping the bombardment. t t t"We have seen consistent intrusions and intrusion attempts," said Benjamin Read, manager of the cyber-espionage team at security companyt t t tCertainly, cybersecurity is a tough concept for politicians to get their heads around. Foreign agents sneaking into computer systems to steal secrets is crazy enough; the idea of enemies hacking into the computers which control critical infrastructure like power stations to cause destruction can seem like something out of an airport thriller--but is scarily real. t t tBut as politicians try to wrap their heads around the concept of "the cyber," in the absence of a clear legal framework, hackers and spy agencies are experimenting to see what they can--and can't--get away with. It's this uncertainty and lack of rules, and any obvious deterrent, that's creating a free-for-all online. t t tAnd cyberattacks are cheap, too: No need for a huge military might when all you need is a few smart people and some PCs to start a hacking campaign that can cause headaches for some of the biggest nations on the planet. For a state with few other options, cyberattacks can be a potent weapon.Steve Ranger explains why deterring cyberattacks by state-backed hackers is complicated, and why the stakes keep getting higher.tWhat makes cyberattacks an even more enticing option is that it's often hard to work out who is actually responsible for a particular incident, making it a handy way to cause trouble without necessarily getting caught. Nations often outsource these kinds of intrusions to freelancers who are adept at covering their tracks, making it harder to point the finger of blame. For example, an intrusion that took French TV station tComplicating matters even further is the often-forgotten reality that all countries commit espionage--even against their own allies--to understand capabilities and intentions (there's also an unwritten rule that defence contractors and government agencies are considered to be fair game when it comes to espionage, digital or otherwise). tFor Western governments, making a clear distinction between what they consider standard (if unsavoury) elements of statecraft, ones that they indulge in themselves, and those activities that are deemed less acceptable--industrial espionage, election meddling, destructive cyberattacks, and even tHacking is cheap, easy, deniable, and everybody is doing it. No wonder it's proving so hard to stamp out.tThis is the complicated backdrop against which Western governments are struggling to build some kind of model to deter cyberattackers. t"What deterrence is fundamentally about is making the cost of doing something too high for someone to want to do it," says Ewan Lawson, senior research fellow for military influence at the t"The two forms we've tended to see is deterrence through hardening--just making something too difficult to be done--or deterrence through punishment, where you impose a cost on the individual or organisation," he says. tHardening defences should be the easy part. Many of the most basic attacks--such as theParticipants at the Locked Shields international technical network defence exercise in 2017. tHowever, while governments have more control over their systems, they have less ability to insist that businesses and individuals improve their own security, which is generally pretty terrible, because there are always better things to do. That means there is always a backdoor open to the hackers--and too often the front door, too. tAccording to t"The unfortunate reality is that, for at least the coming five to ten years, the offensive cyber capabilities of our most capable potential adversaries are likely to far exceed the United States' ability to defend and adequately strengthen the resilience of its critical infrastructures," warns atAttempts to tackle the other side of that deterrence equation--imposing a cost on the hackers--have proved even more complicated. tEarlier in 2018 the US director of national intelligence Dan Coates warned that Russia, China, Iran, and North Korea "will work to use cyber operations to achieve strategic objectives unless they face clear tHowever, finding a set of effective deterrents remains at best a work in progress. tSome state-backed hackers are looking for trade secrets, some are looking for weaknesses that could be used in future attacks, some are looking to steal money--and others want to just stir up trouble. Some want to do all of these things at once. Each of these motivations requires a different response. t"In order to have effective deterrence from a US standpoint it's very important that we not just think about this in terms of cybersecurity defence and offence, but the cultural aspects of various nation states and their motivation," said tOver the last half-decade, the US and its allies have tried to deter state-backed hackers with everything from publicity to sanctions and indictments, and (maybe) even attempts to hack back against assailants. tWhile governments have plenty of practice at responding to a traditional armed assault because they've been dealing with that pretty much since countries were invented, calibrating a response to a cyberattack remains tricky. t"Ultimately it's not about responding to a cyberattack with cyber means, it's about looking at the full toolkit you have as a state in terms of diplomatic, economic, military, and others, and determining the right set of incentives and penalties you're going to apply to a country that's behaving in a way that is unacceptable," says Dmitri Alperovitch, CTO at security companytThe US, in particular, has been testing a variety of different deterrent strategies over a number of years. China was the first country openly tackled for its cyber-espionage when, in May 2014, a grand jury indicted five Chinese military hackers for hacking directed at companies in the US nuclear power and solar energy industries (see timeline below). tA summit between President Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping followed a year later, at which both countries promised not to use commercial cyber-espionage. Chinese attacks slowed, at least temporarily. But, according to the US intelligence community, China continues to use cyber-espionage to try and break into defence contractors and communications firms in particular. tChina is also targeting confidential business information such as pricing strategies or mergers and acquisitions data says FireEye's Read. "What we've seen pop up is Chinese groups targeting US law firms, US investment companies, and so on, stealing information in support of economic goals." tAttempts to curb cyber intrusions by Iran have also met with similar, limited, success. tIn March 2016 charges were announced against seven Iranians over distributed denial of service attacks against US companies; one man was also charged with unauthorized access into control systems of a US dam. In March 2018 the US Department of Justice charged nine Iranians with stealing more that 31 terabytes of documents and data from more than 140 American universities and 30 American companies. tThe US also tried using sanctions against North Korea over itstIt's possible, although still unclear, that the US may have also responded to Pyonyang's attack on Sony Pictures by tBut North Korea continues to use cyberattacks to gain intelligence and in particular to steal funds to prop up the state. "They've really veered into the crime angle," Read notes.These are ballistic missiles in North Korea. Security experts are becoming increasingly worried about cyber-espionage and cybercrime originating from North Korea.tWhile attempts to curb the behaviour of China, Iran, and North Korea has been limited in its impact, the biggest challenge the US faces at the moment is from Russian interference. tRussia has been blamed for thetFor its part, Russia has denied any meddling. President Putin has denied Russian state involvement in any election meddling, although he did not rule out that Russian hackers might be involved. t"If they are feeling patriotic, they will start contributing, as they believe, to the justified fight against those speaking ill of Russia,"In December 2016 US President Obama responded to revelations about Russian behaviour by expelling diplomats and closing two Russian properties. Russia's President Putin has denied Russian state involvement in election meddling.tUS intelligence warns that Russian intelligence and security services continue to probe US critical infrastructures, as well as target the US, NATO, and allies for insights into US policy. Attempts to deter Russian meddling seem to have had little impact. t"It has not changed the calculus or the behaviour on behalf of the Russians," said then-NSA chief Admiral Mike Rogers in February 2018 according to tIn December 2016 President Obama responded to revelations about Russian behaviour by expelling diplomats and closing two Russian properties. President Trump added to those moves with new sanctions in March 2018--which had been approved by Congress seven months earlier--and accused Moscow of attempting to hack the US energy grid. Critics said these sanctions did not go far enough. t"The sanctions... are a grievous disappointment and fall far short of what is needed to respond to that attack on our democracy," said Adam Schiff, senior Democrat on the House of Representatives Intelligence Committee (more sanctions were imposed on Russia in May 2018). tIndeed, deterring Russia is further complicated by Donald Trump's own response to the hacking revelations. In the Presidential race he--jokingly--invited Russia to hack Hillary Clinton, saying: " tOne tactic the US has used with some success is to be more public about Russian attacks; it has also coordinated with other countries to go public. t"The US government using its own sources and methods coming out solo in saying 'This nation state did a bad thing' will have a debatable effect. What I think is more effective is if an international body or a group of nations can come out and conclusively say that a particular nation state or group did something," said Rudolph. tIn February 2018, seven nations--the US, the UK, Denmark, Lithuania, Estonia, Canada, and Australia--tCreating a broader coalition makes its condemnation stronger and harder for a country to shrug off. tBut although naming-and-shaming may have worked against Chinese industrial cyber-espionage (at least in the short term), it doesn't seem to be particularly effective against the Russians. While the Chinese government doesn't like to be embarrassed in this way, Russia seems much less concerned. tWhile Moscow consistently denies conducting any of these attacks, it doesn't seem to mind the accusations too much--if only because it acknowledges the Russian state's capabilities. t"If you look at the Russian government, you have to pair unilateral sanctions with international sanctions and the real threat of retribution. What we did in the last [Obama] administration in response to the election meddling was insufficient at best," said Rudolph. tSome analysts go further: "Building cyber-deterrence through a mix of both national capabilities and global norms that guide behavior has been a cornerstone of US cyber security since the very realm first emerged. Today, it is not just challenged, but in utter collapse," tSo what would a stronger response look like? RUSI's Lawson suggests that targeting Russian oligarchs and their wealth could be effective. "All of this comes with a degree of risk, and one of the things we don't do very well these days is accept risk. None of these things have a 100% guaranteed outcome, but the do-nothing option is not an option either," he says. t"At the moment for Russia there are no consequences. For Putin it all seems to be working," said Lawson. tSo has there been any deterrent effect of Western governments' measures so far against Russia? "Not one that I've heard communicated in a very effective way, and certainly not one when I've spoken to Russians that I think they would recognise as such," says Lawson.Donald Trump's response to hacking revelations about Russia has complicated efforts at cyber-deterrence.tBut Rudolph sees some positive developments. The US plans to invest more in identifying who is really behind an attack. The t"That's something I've seen the Trump administration start to evolve, and I do believe they have different response packages, and for different nation states and that's not something we always had," Rudolph said.tThere is always the chance that nation states will change their minds about their use of hacking and cyber intrusion. tAs recently as 2009 Russia was keen for a treaty with the US covering the use of cyberweapons. This would have banned countries from t"I'm sceptical as to whether we can develop a meaningful or effective deterrent strategy," said Rudolph. tIt will likely take years, or even decades, for rules to finally emerge that govern cyber-espionage and cyberwarfare, so countries will continue to jockey for position for years to come until norms are established. A failure to establish boundaries accepted by all means that the risk of accidental escalation remains; if the rules of engagement aren't clear, then a relatively trivial hacking incident could rapidly turn into a full-on confrontation. tMore worryingly, the kind of cyberattacks that governments are required to deter may also change over time. As societies become more reliant on technology--like the Internet of Things--the risk of catastrophic cyberattacks will rise. t"A large-scale cyberattack on civilian critical infrastructure could cause chaos by disrupting the flow of electricity, money, communications, fuel, and water. Thus far, we have only seen the virtual tip of the cyberattack iceberg," said atGovernments might choose to deter the largest attacks with the largest weapons in their military arsenals. It was recently suggested that a sufficiently serious cyberattack could t"I think the national security community has lacked a bit of creativity when it comes to thinking of the sheer scope and scale of a massive cyberattack, and the physical consequences that come from that, so I think the nuclear deterrent is interesting--it's part of the evolution of what is going to be a truly effective deterrence. We just don't know yet, and I don't think we will know for about 20 more years," said Rudolph.Participants at the two-day exercise called Locked Shields, which is run by NATO's Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence. Various models are used to react to staged incidents.tOne further complication is that rival countries have very different definitions of national security and how to protect it--understanding these differences will be key to creating an agreed set of rules. This makes cyberwar a question of language, not computer code. tRUSI's Lawson argues the West's adversaries aren't playing by the same rules "so surely it makes sense to continue the conversation and at least start to explore where the boundaries lie." tFor example, Russia is--among other things--very concerned about the ability of the West to influence its population through the internet in the way that it did in the past through radio stations, and sees its own election meddling as acceptable through that prism of suspicion. t"It's about continuing the conversation," said Lawson. "If it does take 20 years for norms to appear in part that will be our fault for making the decision not to engage." tBut for now, many nations states will judge that using hackers to spy on, disrupt, distract, and steal from rival states remains a cheap, effective, and relatively risk-free option. Until something changes, expect to see plenty more of the same.tIn the last few years the US government and others have made various attempts to stop hacking attacks by countries including Russia, China, North Korea, and Iran, with mixed results.t"Russia's cyber activities were intended to influence the election, erode faith in U.S. democratic institutions, sow doubt about the integrity of our electoral process, and undermine confidence in the institutions of the U.S. government. These actions are unacceptable and will not be tolerated,"