---
layout: post
title: Air-gapping the planet: How to travel safely in digitally scary places
date: 2018-06-20 19:00:54
tourl: /article/air-gapping-the-planet-how-to-travel-safely-in-digitally-scary-places/
tags: [China,law,act,Telegram]
---
 t t t tLook, I grew up in Take these simple steps to help protect yourself against hackers and government surveillance. t t tIf you're traveling to countries like Russia or China (and, yeah, entering ort t t tI am more than a little paranoid, and on the rare occasion It t tLet me be clear: These approaches aren't for everyone. If you're not deeply concerned about your data being intercepted or your devices being infected, just take the easy way out. But if you're a fan of spy movies and are concerned about how to stay as digitally safe as possible, here are a few slightly "out there" spycraft-style tips you might want to consider. t t tLet's first discuss where you're at most risk. Digital travel risk can really be broken down into two vectors: Losing physical control of your devices and communications interception. t t tIn the case of losing physical control of your devices, the most likely occurrence is transiting a national border. During your passage through airport metal detectors or through customs, you may have to hand over your devices. t t tTo be fair, this isn't just about what happens if you enter Russia or China, for example. We know the US government has been doingt t tI'm able to hold two opposing viewpoints in my mind at once. As a longtimet t t tBorder crossings are an instance where you have absolutely no control. If you have to give up your devices, you have to give up your devices. But there are other occasions where laziness, stupidity, or convenience might lead you to letting someone else touch your device. t t tYou might decide it's not convenient to lug your laptop to breakfast, so you leave it in your room, but a room maintenance person might gain access to it, potentiallyt tYou might drop your phone in a cab as you're rushing for an appointment. You might hand your phone to a stranger to take a picture in front of a monument, and that stranger runs off with your device. You might check your laptop into a hotel safe, where anyone on staff can gain all-day access to your gear. And so on. t t tThe second way they can get you is through traffic interception. After all, you're dependent on using whatever telecom services exist in the host country to access the internet, make calls, or send texts. t t tWe know for sure, for example, thatt t tWhen you consider traveling outside the country, you should certainly consider using a VPN, but there are other techniques you might employ. Before I go further, I should point out that the internet echo chamber (that is, bloggers and press who simply repeat what other bloggers and press write) is convincedt t tThe true answer was hard to nail down and took my contacting the Russian Foreign Ministry, the US State Department, and two attorneys, one in Russia and one in the US. But, the fact is, operating a VPN for the public is restricted (not illegal) in Russia. Use, according to the advice of the two attorneys who read the actual law and not just other blog posts, is legal. Seet t tHere's the thing. I don't want there to be any connection between what I say when traveling and my world back home. If possible, I don't want some foreign government to know who I'm talking to, what I'm saying, email addresses of associates, and so on. t t t tEssentially, I want to "air gap" (or keep off the internet) all my travel communications. Since that's not really practical if you need to communicate, the next best thing is to be extremely deliberate in how you communicate. Let's look at some of those steps. t t tLet's start with the one I'm sure is going to have the most pushback in the comments below. Never, ever travel with the devices you use at home. t t tBefore you leave, buy yourself ant t tNow, here's the thing: You will use these two devices while traveling, and then, just before you return home, destroy them. If you can't find a hammer, you can use a chair leg. Smack the living heck out of them, until you can bend and break them. Leave them in shards, and then toss them out. t t tThere are two reasons you want to do this. First, you don't want any of your data to get into the wrong hands. t tOne of my editors argues with this approach, saying a new, up-to-date and fully patched device that's completely blank -- like a new out-of-the-box iPhone 7/8 -- is perfectly fine for crossing the border. His premise is you download your data once you cross the border, load up and install -- then enable strong PIN code and don't turn on the fingerprint. But this is too easy a trap. First, downloading your data opens you up to a tremendous interception risk. t t tSecond, if you've bought a new,t tBut, second, you want to make sure you don't ever attach devices that have been in someone else's hands to any network you rely on. By destroying these things before you return to your home country, you remove the chance that a malware transfer agent could have been placed on one of the devices and gets into your environment back home. t tThis was actually the concern way back in the second Bush administration during a meeting (actually in New Orleans). Senior officials were asked to leave their phones outside of a conference room.t tIn this case, Curiel was more likely to want to mine the phones for their secrets, but he also had more than enough time to install hidden eavesdropping apps that could listen or record while in the White House -- had the Secret Service returned those phones back to their owners.A virtual private network enables users to send and receive data while remaining anonymous and secure online. In this directory, we look at a few of the very best commercial VPN service providers on the Internet. t t tIf the gear you use in a foreign country stays in that foreign country, it can't infect your gear back home. Yeah, I know. The objection is "what if you never use it at home." But you will. There will be a moment. If you kill them before you get home, you won't make that terrible mistake. t t tYes, this practice could cost you a few hundred bucks, but how much is the whole trip costing you? And how much would infecting your home network or that of your employer cost? It's worth it to buy some disposable burner devices and then make darned sure you dispose of them. Don't forget to use safety glasses. t t tDo not let them pass through customs. Period. Destroy them first. t t tYes, you can, in theory, use a VPN to protect your traffic from your computer to the VPN service, but now you're faced with trusting a VPN service provider with your data. Paranoids trust no one. t t tSee also: t t tNo matter how much you might want to check yourt t tJust don't do it. No arguments. Don't. t t tDo not use your own email account. Instead, create a temporary email account, preferably on a service you don't normally use. If you're a Gmail user, create ant t tUnderstand this: You won't actually be emailing to your friends and associates. You will be emailing to an intermediary, who will then email your friends and associates. You'll use this account to email that intermediary. More on that in a minute. t t t tLet me be clear. Never, ever give access to any of your accounts to this service. Create accounts that are temporary and wholly new. Treat this service as an answering service, not as a virtual assistant. Your email on your main email accounts will go completely unread and untouched by anyone while you're away. t tThis is an intermediary letter drop for those you specifically tell to email to this address and service. t t tIn this case, I'm going to reluctantly recommend you set up a temporary relationship with one of the more well-known services. Certain services liket t tOther personal services (like FancyHands) do not remember details between assignments. This won't work for our application. t t tThe purpose of the virtual assistant service is to act as a temporary intermediary for sending and receiving communications. Do not give them access to your main email account. Ever! t t tInstead, let the four or five people you need to communicate with regularly know that you'll be receiving email via the personal assistant service. Let's say you need to communicate with two clients. Give those two clients the email address of your virtual personal assistant. If they want to reach you while you're away, that's how to do it. t t tNext, train your virtual personal assistant to transcode messages. In other words, if your two clients are bob@wackywidgets.com and carol@widgetsareus.com, you'll want to give each a code name. So Bob becomes Ted and Carol becomes Alice. t t tHere's how you train your assistant: When he or she gets an email from Bob, copy the text from the message and send yourself an email on your temporary email account. Indicate that the message is from Ted. It will be up to you to keep track of who's who in your mind (don't write this stuff down). t t t tIf you need to send a message to Bob, send an email to your personal assistant and indicate that the following text is to be sent to Ted. Likewise, with sending or getting mail from Carol, you and the assistant will use the codename Alice. t t tThe idea here is that no one in the country you're visiting will be able to relate you to your specific clients or friends. Yes, there is a risk is using an outside company to do this letter drop service, but what you're doing is reducing your footprint in the country you're visiting. t t tGet yourself a prepaid credit card at the local Walgreens (or whatever) and pay for this service with that prepaid card. While we're on the topic of credit cards, it'd be best if you can be issued a temporary card just for travel. It's risky taking a prepaid card, because if you lose it, you're screwed. Some banks will issue temporary travel cards, and that's probably best. t t tOnce you return home, cancel this service. Go back to your regular email practice. t tI don't trust them.t t t tAnd, of course, if you don't compile it yourself, you lose all the open-source security benefits, because you have no idea what whoever posted the app put inside it before compiling. t tI wouldn't use these. Instead, I'd be very careful about what I say back to anyone at home. In fact, I'd probably limit myself to an "I arrived safely" call on the hotel's phone and "I'm leaving now" and that's it. Since the hotel and the host government already know your home address, that's not too much to share. And two very short calls on pre-existing circuits won't damage your digital profile anywhere else. t t tTo be honest, I wouldn't use a virtual personal assistant when traveling. I'd use code. What I would do is set up a temporaryt t tThen, I'd write a script that parsed incoming email messages, stripped off their header information, rewrote appropriate header information, and sent the messages on to their intended destination. t t t tThis is not something most people can do. I've written my own list servers and mail managers before, so coding mail management software is something I have years of experience with. But, for those of you who need to travel and can't spin up your own custom servers and server code, the virtual assistant approach is moderately workable. t t tFor that matter, I wouldn't use at t tBut that's me. You need to decide what you're willing to put up with and how much effort you're willing to take. t t tDo not bring along your password management program. Instead, create just a few passwords for your temporary email accounts.t t tOnce again, let me be clear: Let's say you desperately need access to your Gmail while away... Don't. Period. Live with being disconnected from your main accounts for a week. t t tI do not have a great answer for photos. It ist t tOne recommendation would be to use another temporary server, set up ant t t tFrankly, your best bet is to upload those images to something like Google's image cloud and hope that Google's built in enough scanning protections to make those images safe. Just remember that if you take this approach, you're using an account that's new, temporary, and completely unrelated to any accounts you normally own. I wouldn't do this, though. t t tHere's my WWDD for this: If you truly want to keep your photos safe while traveling, bring a film camera. Amazon still sells film, and you can buy SLR film cameras. If I were traveling someplace digitally scary and I wanted to take pictures, that's the approach I'd take. t t tAll these techniques showcase how difficult it can be if you're traveling, want to stay safe, and are smartly paranoid. That said, I left the best technique for last. Here it is. t t tLeave all your toys at home. t t t tThat's it. Just travel. Take your trip. Keep a careful eye on your tickets and passport and enjoy the trip. Don't worry about digital devices. Leave them at home. t t tWhat about you? If you travel someplace digitally scary, what would you do to stay safe? Let me know in the comments below. tKroll cybersecurity and investigations senior managing director Alan Brill explains how to protect smartphones, tablets, and other internet-connected devices from cybercriminals while traveling. t tThe FBI is recommending that all small business and home router owners reboot devices, even if they're not among the brands known to be affected. t tSpecial Counsel Robert Mueller's office said Friday that a grand jury has indicted 13 Russian nationals and three Russian entities accused of election meddling. t tKaspersky Lab also plans to move the tools and systems used to compile products from its source code to the country. t tRussia's quest to stop encrypted messaging app Telegram also blocks thousands of Amazon, Google addresses. t tThe FBI also warned of Russian government actors targeting the energy grid and other critical infrastructure. t tWhat would an escalation of tensions mean for the future of our relationships with Russian software companies, developers, and strategically outsourced tech talent?