---
layout: post
title: ?LG CNS launches AI document security and access card solutions
date: 2018-07-10 00:02:11
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/lg-cns-launches-ai-document-security-and-access-card-solutions/
tags: [Malware]
---
LG CNS's automated access card issuing solution will save time for visitors. tLG CNS, the IT service affiliate of LG Group, has launched two new security solutions aimed at the enterprise. tThe company's automated access card-issuing machine will save considerable time when processing visitors, it has said, while its AI-applied document solution authenticates documents before they are destroyed. tThe access card issuing machine processes a visitor's ID card and phone number and immediately registers them. The visitors will then get a temporary access card and a QR code on their smartphone. tBy placing the QR code on the machine's sensor, the phone's camera, microphone, Bluetooth, and tethering functions will automatically be turned off. The functions will reactivate when visitors insert their access card back into the machine when they leave. tThe machine automatically traces the number of visitors by tracking cards issued and those returned. tLG CNS hopes the solution can be used for large facilities owned by conglomerates and governments. tThe AI-based document security solution, meanwhile, can authenticate documents and keep track of their statuses. Using image matching technology, the solution can compare documents that were printed out with those that were meant to be destroyed. tThe technology has an accuracy of 99 percent, even for documents that are warped or badly damaged. tThe solution will also alert the companies of documents that are past their deadlines for return. tLG CNS last weekLG CNS has launched its own blockchain platform, dubbed Monachain, which provides digital authentication, community token, and supply chain management.Restrictions on the USB port will make it tougher for police to get access to your data.Attacks have targeted organisations around the world with modified malware which aims to install backdoors on systems.Microsoft explains how it decides whether a vulnerability will be patched swiftly or left for a version update.Data can prevent cyberattacks by rolling out new models to stop imminent threats, and by quickly testing controls against historical data to ensure minimal business impact, said MapR's John Omernik.