---
layout: post
title: Today, the EU Will Vote If to Ban Kaspersky Products From Official EU Networks
date: 2018-06-13 04:20:54
tourl: https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/government/today-the-eu-will-vote-if-to-ban-kaspersky-products-from-official-eu-networks/
tags: [NATO]
---
In a plenary session of the European Parliament that will be held today in Strasbourg, France, members of the European Parliament (MEPs) This particular ban clause is included in A8-0189/2018 [The motion's purpose is to establish general guidelines for an EU-wide strategy on cyber defense. In the motion's lengthy body, there is also a clause that addresses public-private partnerships.According to clause #76, if the motion passes as proposed by the Foreign Affairs Commission, EU states will be called upon and expected to review and ban software programs that have been confirmed as malicious.The motion's text matter-of-factly refers to Kaspersky products as "confirmed as malicious," following the lead set by the US last year."The wording ('confirmed') is interesting, but to fully appreciate it you need to be aware this report has its origins in the Foreign Affairs Committee where words like that matter," "However, in context of 'cyber-activity', the wording also has a specific meaning in technology context. So you may have an impression of a deep insight. But more likely, it may be as simple as a reactive response to public press reports," Dr. Olejnik added.Today's EU Parliament vote comes after three other countries have taken steps against Kaspersky Lab. Previously, "Policy-making process is lengthy, and at European Parliament, it takes even longer," Dr. Olejnik said."The continued string of action might be a cascading measure in response to the already known data, but it may as well be a consequence to the continuous pressure by the public opinion."All the cascading bans come after US authorities have accused the Moscow-based antivirus vendor of collaborating with Russian intelligence agencies.Kaspersky Lab has vehemently denied all accusations for the past year. The Russian company even Last month, Kaspersky announced the first details about this But despite Kaspersky's constant denial of spying on behalf of the Russian government, the company's reputation took a nosedive recently, as But to be clear, the proposed EU ban, if approved, applies only to the use of "dangerous programs" inside EU institutions and does not target the EU commercial software market.In the EU, the biggest repercussion of this proposed ban will be Kaspersky's relationship with Europol, which in the past has resulted in the arrest of countless cybercriminals and the creation of the It is unclear if this partnership will be allowed to continue, even if the ban refers to use of software programs. Europol and Kaspersky Lab spokespersons were not available for comment on the proposed ban and the future of the partnership between the two organizations.Eurozone experts expect a positive vote on today's A8-0189/2018 motion, mainly because the document is laden with crucial NATO cooperation clauses, cyber defense strategies, and other more important propositions.The A8-0189/2018 motion was the subject of a public plenary debate yesterday, June 12. The Why ban the company protecting Europeans from 320K malicious threats a day? A backwards step voted on this week in Another company that faces an impending ban, even if not named in the motion directly, is ZTE, since the same clause also references "devices" and not software programs alone. ZTE has been accused for years of 