---
layout: post
title: Firefox 60's WebAuthn API: No Password Required
date: 2018-05-10 19:21:09
tourl: https://www.infosecurity-magazine.com:443/news/firefox-60s-webauthn-api-no/
tags: [WebAuthn]
---
Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.In the web browser war, Mozilla is positioning itself to dominate over the competition with its release of Firefox 60, which includes the option of a password-less signin. The latest version of the Firefox browser uses a Web Authentication API, WebAuthn for short, which enables authentication using public key cryptography, taking credentials management to a new level. The change was driven in large part by Mozilla's desire to attract younger users. Over the course of the last two years, Mozilla has been researching behavior changes in Millennials. "There's a sea change in the world right now," Jascha Kaykas-Wolff, CMO, Mozilla, said in Mozilla's research found that a large group of Millennials care about the utility of the products they choose to use. The need for creating and constantly changing user passwords has proven to be overwhelming for end users, which brings value to a product that eliminates the need to use a password when signing in to websites. "This resolves significant security problems related to phishing, data breaches, and attacks against SMS texts or other second-factor authentication methods while at the same time significantly increasing ease of use (since users don't have to manage dozens of increasingly complicated passwords)," WebAuthn works as a supplement to existing APIs already in use on many websites. As many Credential Management APIs do, the Web Authentication API uses both On 8 May, Dropbox programmer Brad Girardeau published aBecause the information used in WebAuthn never leaves the security key, it's reportedly much harder to steal. However, Dropbox has no immediate plans of replacing the password. "There are still many security and usability factors to consider in these scenarios before replacing passwords entirely, and we believe that enabling WebAuthn for two-step verification strikes the right balance for most users right now," wrote Girardeau.