---
layout: post
title: Last call for GDPR
date: 2018-05-17 12:01:15
tourl: https://www.welivesecurity.com/2018/05/17/last-call-gdpr/
tags: [GDPR,regulations]
---
With the deadline fast approaching SMBs are reminded of what is required to become compliant tttttttttttttttBenjamin Franklin famously once said, “By failing to prepare, you are preparing to fail” – a piece of wisdom that can be applied directly to any discussion on Although we have been covering this topic for the last WeLiveSecurity spoke with David Tomlinson, Manager of ESET Endpoint Encryption, who has spent time analysing the impact of GDPR requires any business inside or outside the European Union (EU) that collects or in any other way handles the personal data of EU citizens to be compliant with all its regulations and abide any legal implications resulting from non-compliance.With its complex rules and fines for non-compliance climbing to €20 million or more, GDPR penalties demand a financial outlay that is not easy to cover for any SMBs. With staff headcounts varying from 10 to 250 and annual turnover reaching between €2-50 million, the impact on their profit would be catastrophic.“Ideally companies need to have dedicated personnel for creation of documentation, processes, procedures, someone overseeing the whole business in relation to GDPR, and lastly staff to implement it into the daily lives of employees. This is something that cannot be easily stowed in a structure of a smaller businessAs a Nevertheless, this is not a lost battle. The majority of companies still can ensure their compliance before the deadline of May 25The key lies in understanding what the role of personal data in each business is, and what protective measures need to be applied to meet the requirements of GDPR. Let’s define what personal data is. “It is any information that relates to an identified or identifiable living individual. For example: name, surname, home address, e-mail address, location data”, the directive reads.If we take a generic recruitment agency as an example – in their terminology, personal data would be referring to a client number or a code assigned to each of the candidate’s résumés. Even with no obvious direct identification of the individual, this code is classified as personal data and should be handled according to GDPR rules.With the directive coming to force near the end of May, there is a need not only to audit internal processes and structures, but for additional security measures to be implemented across all industries as well. For easy understanding of what needs to be done, you can review After all that’s been said in media about GDPR, we shouldn’t forget that the primary role of the directive is to enforce better data protection rights for European citizens. This, however, includes notification of a data breach to the It’s important to remember that not every business is exposed to the same risks. While large businesses name malicious attacks as the There are many ways to mitigate these risks – including tools for process automation, encryption and two-factor authentication solutions, along with training your staff to comply with the processes. None of them will magically solve all your problems at once – but it is safe to say it will solve the majority of them when set up correctly.“Security of USB sticks and laptops plays an important role, as these sometimes can become lost or stolen, leading to the loss of customer data, HR files, etc. that are stored on them – if the data are not encrypted. If you invest in easy-to-use encryption software for your business to store and work with the personal data safely, you are close to a win,” concludes Tomlinson.For more information on GDPR, ESET has a 