---
layout: post
title: PassProtect tells you if your password has been pwned
date: 2018-05-25 15:01:07
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/passprotect-tells-you-if-your-password-has-been-pwned/
tags: [Biometric,attack,WebAuthn]
---
There's a 30GB database ofOkta's As not all web sites are going to use either of those, PassProtect is also available as Of course, passing your password around the internet to check whether it's safe needs to be done securely. PassProtect uses Cloudflare's The extension computes the SHA1 hash of the password, takes In the long term, moving away from passwords to contextual security and biometrics will protect us better. That means that when you're trying to access a really important document you'll need to use multiple factors like clicking 'ok' on a push message on your phone or a face or fingerprint scan on a device you've already used, that's up to date on patches and anti-malware protection on a known network. But when you're logging into the same site you log into at the same time every day, from the same physical location using the same network connection and the same IP address, and what you're looking at isn't unusually confidential, you won't have to type in a password at all. Identity services like Azure AD and now Okta support that kind of contextual security, because making security more usable makes it more secure; annoyingly difficult security is what people try to get around. IT policies shouldn't force users to change their password every 90 days if it hasn't been phished or stolen from the password database. As Okta vice president Rich Dandliker put it at the company's recent Oktane conference, the number of forced password changes directly correlates with the number of passwords that get written down on Post-it notes.Biometrics and hardware options have their own issues; you can lose a hardware key and almost every biometric system from fingerprints to iris recognition to hand vein prints to voice biometrics fails for around 20 percent of the population (not to mention storing a hash that matches the biometric features rather than an image of your fingerprint, since you can't reset your fingers if that database gets breached). But as these options becomes a standard (through FIDO and the W3C), it's another step away from the ongoing dumpster fire that is internet passwords. A combination like Windows Hello which falls back to a PIN if the recognition fails is a good compromise - even if that's a short PIN, because it's stored only on the PC where you register the biometric, and it's stored in silicon. To break that, you'd have to steal the PC and type in guess after guess until you got it right. As Okta's Alex Bovee said at Oktane, "If as an industry we've reduced the attack surface on our users to having to physically steal a device, that's a pretty good achievement."Once browsers and web sites support the FIDO and WebAuthN standards, they can exchange tokens based on biometrics and hardware to log you in and you won't have to worry nearly as much about whether a site has leaked your password. Until then, an extension like PassProtect is well worth installing. 