---
layout: post
title: Obscurity is the only security
date: 2018-07-09 00:02:11
tourl: https://www.cyberscoop.com/obscurity-cryptography-jonathan-wilkins-op-ed/?category_news=technology
tags: [Attack]
---
There’s a common belief in the security world that obscurity shouldn’t be used as a layer of protection.This line of thinking is based on That said, there is much to be gained through properly applied obfuscation in deployed systems.If there’s one thing that the history of cryptography has taught us, it’s that each system has a lifespan. Some of this is expected. Over time, RSA key sizes have grown as machines have increased in speed and power.Yet, experience shows that by investing a significant amount of time to expert research, along with appropriate funding, some flaw will be discovered that will compromise a system. If not found in the design, flaws will be discovered in the implementation or one of its dependencies (BIND, OpenSSL).The implementation is always more susceptible to attack than the algorithms and protocols. Any system in frequent use by more than a dozen people could be breached by a patient nation-state that’s willing to expend serious resources to gain access.We have seen this time and time again. Hushmail, one of the first email providers to have security as its main feature, We have also frequently seen that what is currently impossible or merely theoretical may soon become the favored tool of script kiddies. So when it comes to an audit, the trick is having a useful model for evaluating each layer, This is done so there is confidence in the level of delay a system is expected to produce against certain classes of attackers. Security developers can then expend resources in line with expectations, keeping in mind that complexity yields vulnerabilities.Looking at a few trivial measures will give us a model. For instance, what does moving your SSH daemon to a different port give you?  Well, someone wanting to scan the internet for all SSH daemons on port 22 would have to send four billion packets, minus known private IP space, RFC1918/Yet, not every host is going to do this. If one in forty hosts randomly chooses a port, then the attacker’s work has only gone up by a small percentage; the attacker only has to scan on hosts that don’t reply on 22. Instead of sending 2.7 billion packets, they might send an additional 30,000 packets, but only on 2.5 percent of hosts. That’s still under the 3 billion mark.This model really only helps against the least skilled level of attacker. For targeted attacks, it only increases the attacker’s work by the number of servers you have times 30,000. When we can scan the entire internet in 10 minutes/port, that’s inconsequential. An attacker can scan an entire class B, all ports in the same 10 minutes.  An attacker with a small botnet can do every port on every machine in the same amount of time (as Another way to examine this is through lockpicking. Think of each pin as a layer of security. If you have a lock with five pins and a lockpicker uses a The layers do serve a purpose. Some of these mechanisms are like a The first time an attacker does that, they’ll know not to do it again, but you’ve already been alerted and are watching out (and you’ve still got other mechanisms like that for the next time).There is no security mechanism that isn’t ultimately based in obscurity. There are multiple types that people should consider. It is up to each of us to determine whether we want the ultimate in obscurity, or the metaphorical equivalent of a floor covered in tacks.