---
layout: post
title: One year later: EternalBlue exploit more popular now than during WannaCryptor outbreak
date: 2018-05-10 17:01:07
tourl: https://www.welivesecurity.com/2018/05/10/one-year-later-eternalblue-exploit-wannacryptor/
tags: [exploit,attack]
---
The infamous outbreak may no longer be causing mayhem worldwide but the threat that enabled it is still very much alive and posing a major threat to unpatched and unprotected systemstttttttttttttttIt’s been a year since the The EternalBlue exploit targets a vulnerability (addressed in Microsoft Security Bulletin MS17-010) in Microsoft’s implementation of the Server Message Block (SMB) protocol, via port 445. In an attack, black hats scan the internet for exposed SMB ports, and if found, launch the exploit code. If it is vulnerable, the target will then run a payload of the attacker’s choice. This was the mechanism behind the effective distribution of WannaCryptor.D ransomware across networks.Interestingly, according to ESET’s telemetry, EternalBlue had a calmer period immediately after the 2017 WannaCryptor campaign: over the following months, attempts to use the EternalBlue exploit dropped to “only” hundreds of detections daily. Since September last year, however, the use of the exploit has slowly started to gain pace again, continually growing and reaching new heights in mid-April 2018.One possible explanation for the latest peak is the We must stress that the infiltration method used by EternalBlue is not successful on devices protected by ESET. One of the multiple protection layers – Network Attack Protection module – blocks this threat at the point of entry. This can be compared to a silent knocking on the door at 2 a.m. testing if someone is still up. As such activity is most likely driven by malicious intentions, the entrance is securely sealed off to keep the intruder out.This was true during the WannaCryptor outbreak on May 12, 2017 as well as all EternalBlue has enabled many high-profile cyberattacks. Apart from WannaCryptor, it also powered the destructive Diskcoder.C (aka Petya, NotPetya and ExPetya) attack in June 2017 as well as the BadRabbit ransomware campaign in The exploit has also been identified as one of the spreading mechanisms for The EternalBlue exploit was allegedly stolen from the This exploit and all the attacks it has enabled so far highlight the 