---
layout: post
title: Ammyy Admin compromised with malware again; World Cup used as cover
date: 2018-07-10 00:02:12
tourl: https://www.welivesecurity.com/2018/07/10/ammyy-admin-compromised-malware-world-cup-cover/
tags: [Malware,Attack]
---
Website altered to serve a malware-tainted version of otherwise legitimate software with the global event in Russia acting as a smokescreen tttttttttttttttUsers who downloaded the free remote administration tool Ammyy Admin from its official website ammyy.com on June 13 or 14, beware!According to ESET’s analysis, within that timeframe the website was compromised to serve a malware-tainted version of this otherwise legitimate software. To add an interesting twist to the incident, the attackers tried to hide their malicious activity behind the brand of the ongoing FIFA World Cup.It feels almost like traveling back in time. In October 2015, the website offering a free version of Ammyy Admin software started serving malicious code Users who downloaded software from ammyy.com in the aforementioned timeframe received more than just the requested software – part of the bundle was also a multipurpose Trojan and banking malware detected by ESET as Win32/Kasidet. ESET advises all potential victims to take precautionary measures and use a reliable security product to scan and clean their devices.Win32/Kasidet is a bot that is sold in underground crime markets and is actively used by various cybercriminal groups. The build detected on the ammyy.com site on June 13 and 14, 2018 had two main goals:2. Reporting processes whose names include any of the following strings:The URL of the command and control server, hxxp://fifa2018start[.]info/panel/tasks.phpESET researchers spotted multiple similarities to the 2015 attack. Back then, attackers were misusing ammyy.com to serve numerous malware families, changing them on an almost daily basis. In the 2018 case, ESET systems detected only Win32/Kasidet, however, the obfuscation of the payload changed on three occasions, probably to avoid detection by security products.Another similarity between the incidents was the identical name of the file – As the site has been similarly compromised in the past, ESET recommends users to run an updated and reliable multi-layered antimalware solution whenever they try to download software from this website.While Ammyy Admin is a legitimate tool, it has a long history of being misused by fraudsters. As a result, several security products, including ESET’s, detect it as a Potentially Unsafe Application. However, it is still widely used, mostly in Russia.We notified Ammyy about the issue. As Ammyy Admin is widely used, we feel it is important to warn its users about its current security issues.Special thanks to Jakub Sou?ek, who pointed us to the compromise and provided the analysis.