---
layout: post
title: Feds Ramp Up Investigations Into Online Harassment, Cyberstalking & Threats
date: 2018-06-04 17:45:19
tourl: https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/government/feds-ramp-up-investigations-into-online-harassment-cyberstalking-and-threats/
tags: [law,act]
---
On Friday, a New York man was arrested and charged in According to the affidavit in support of the complaint:“Waldman is charged with engaging in an extensive cyberstalking campaign targeting a woman he briefly dated.  The campaign began in April 2014, shortly after Waldman and the victim ended their relationship, and continued intermittently until the date of Waldman’s arrest.  Over the course of almost four years, Waldman sent the victim hundreds of text messages, voicemail messages, and e-mail messages, and made voluminous posts on a variety of online platforms, in which he claimed, among other assertions, that she had been diagnosed with bipolar and narcissistic personality disorder, used drugs, and fabricated claims that she had been a victim of child sexual abuse.  In his online communications, Waldman also repeatedly threatened to show up at the victim’s apartment and office and threatened to injure, torture, and sexually assault her. Waldman also sent email messages to the victim’s employers, accusing her of being a ‘habitual drug user’ and claiming that he would sue her for defamation, theft, illegal trespass, violating HIPAA, and engaging in other ‘illegal behaviors.’”The updated cyberstalking law, Whoever..."(2) with the intent to kill, injure, harass, intimidate, or place under surveillance with intent to kill, injure, harass, or intimidate another A) places that person in reasonable fear of the death of or B) causes, attempts to cause, or would be reasonably expected to cause substantial emotional distress to a shall be punished as provided in Threats often accompany cyberstalking and 18 U.S.C. § 875(c) can be used in addition to the cyberstalking statute. It is a federal crime, punishable by up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine, to transmit any communication in interstate or foreign commerce containing a threat to injure the person of another.”Additionally, if the act of cyberstalking involves two or more people, all participants can be charged even if they only played a minor role in the cyberstalking. Federal prosecutors can use a While trolls are relatively harmless and will generally move on to the next target if they are ignored, cyberstalkers cross the line from annoying to illegal behavior. A cyberstalker typically becomes According to “Cyberstalking is a compulsion. It aims to humiliate, control, frighten, manipulate, embarrass, get revenge at, or otherwise harm the victim. Many cyberstalkers are obsessed, unstable, or otherwise mentally ill. Still, others are simply angry or hurt and have crossed the line into Cyberstalking escalates into more threatening behavior, sometimes even deadly, for victims in over 70 percent of cases. It can result in physical attacks, abductions and other dangerous encounters with the cyberstalker.A cyberstalker can be a former significant other, a coworker, a fan, a Over the past year and a half there has been a significant increase in the amount of cyberstalking cases investigated by the FBI. Long sentences, such as Authorities have become more savvy in how they go about nabbing cybercriminals. And, with the sharp increase in cyberstalking cases reported, federal authorities have stepped up the pace of investigating these cases. For instance, a cyberstalking suspect was arrested after The average FBI investigation takes around 18 months. If the FBI needs to coordinate with authorities in other countries, it can take even longer and the process of extradition will further extend the amount of time it will take to go to trial.