---
layout: post
title: Fogarty confirmed as new Army Cyber Command leader
date: 2018-05-10 12:11:07
tourl: https://defensesystems.com/articles/2018/05/04/arcyber-fogarty-williams.aspx
tags: [Cyber Command]
---
PeopleMaj. Gen. Stephen Fogarty has been confirmed as Army Cyber Command’s next commander.Fogarty has been the chief of staff for U.S. Cyber Command since 2016. Before then, he was the commanding general for the Cyber Center of Excellence and Fort Gordon in Georgia.Fogarty’s confirmation was quietly and swiftly pushed through the Senate, moving from an April 9 nomination to confirmation by voice vote on April 26. During his confirmation, the Senate also approved Fogarty’s promotion to lieutenant general. A start date hasn’t yet been determined.Fogarty will replace Lt. Gen. Paul Nakasone, who became the “This change of command is noteworthy because it signifies the elevation of Cyber Command as our 10th combatant command,” Defense Department spokesperson Dana White told reporters during the weekly briefing May 3.“The cyber domain will define the next century of warfare," White said. "Just as our military must be prepared to defend our nation against hostile acts from land, air and sea, we must also be prepared to deter, and if necessary, respond to hostile acts in cyberspace.”About the AuthorPrior to joining FCW, Williams was the tech reporter for ThinkProgress, where she covered everything from internet culture to national security issues. In past positions, Williams covered health care, politics and crime for various publications, including The Seattle Times. Williams graduated with a master's in journalism from the University of Maryland, College Park and a bachelor's in dietetics from the University of Delaware. She can be contacted at Sign up for our newsletter.ttI agree to this site's 