---
layout: post
title: Firefox 60 lands: It's world's first browser to give you password-free logins, says Mozilla
date: 2018-05-10 11:11:02
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/firefox-60-lands-its-worlds-first-browser-to-give-you-password-free-logins-says-mozilla/
tags: [WebAuthn]
---
Mozilla has released Firefox 60 with support for a new option to sign in to websites without using a password. That's thanks to an emerging W3C standard called By removing passwords, the WebAuthn API will make phishing attacks a lot harder and gives users more convenient authentication choices, including A key advantage, like the FIDO Alliance's predecessor U2F standard for security keys, is that WebAuthn generates cryptographic public-private pairs for signing in, which means no shared secrets that could be leaked if a site is hacked.Though the standard is currently only rolling out to desktop browsers, in future mobile browsers are likely to support it too. Beyond signing into websites, WebAuthn combined with another WC3 standard in development, But as it stands, Firefox for the desktop is the first browser to support WebAuthn. Aligning with Firefox 60's WebAuthn support, Dropbox Dropbox has supported U2F since 2015 but only allowed secure sign-in to Dropbox from Chrome. Dropbox sees potential in WebAuthn because it will allow secure sign-in from more browsers and eventually more devices. However, for now, Dropbox and Firefox support for WebAuthn doesn't entirely remove the need for passwords and currently serves as a means of more broadly supporting two-factor authentication. Also arriving with Firefox 60 is Mozilla's new money-making scheme "sponsored stories", courtesy of its acquisition of the read-it-later service, Pocket. However, users can The feature is rolling out to some US users and will appear in New Tab within Pocket recommendations. Mozilla stresses it is respecting user privacy by generating recommendations on the computer and that browsing history remains private. Finally, Mozilla has released Firefox Quantum for Enterprise, Organizations can choose the standard Firefox Rapid Release with new features every six weeks or the slower Extended Support Release, which is updated annually. Browser makers take an important step in reducing the need for passwords and all the security threats they bring.Firefox users will soon start to see sponsored stories in new tabs, but Mozilla says it will respect users' privacy.Firefox could get its own ad blocker and breach notifications alerts, according to Mozilla's 2018 roadmap.Google will launch a new service to protect politicians and senior executives from sophisticated phishing attacks.