---
layout: post
title: Phishing anniversary: Here’s a free $50/month subscription
date: 2018-06-14 17:03:12
tourl: https://www.welivesecurity.com/2018/06/14/phishing-anniversary-free-50-month-subscription/
tags: [WhatsApp,attack]
---
Adidas “prize” used as bait in attempt to lure people into biting tttttttttttttttSince early 2018, some of your WhatsApp contacts may have sent you a very interesting offer for sport shoes.Adidas is offering 2,500 pairs of shoes to celebrate its 69th anniversary: WhatsApp message.The message suggests that Adidas is offering 2,500 pairs of shoes to celebrate its 69This phishing attack appeared fairly well structured and even had some geolocation-based redirections. As it piqued our interest, we dug a bit further.When browsing the website from the spammed WhatsApp message, a few checks are made to ensure that the request is made from a mobile device such as a smartphone. This is achieved by some JavaScript code that checks the browser’s window orientation property and the width of the screen. If these checks fail, the user is redirected to http://neuewfarben[.]com/404 which is just a page with a 404 error.Should the mobile device checks succeed, the website then obtains geolocation data for the visitor’s IP address, and depending on the country the visitor may be redirected. The following list maps the country and the redirection link.If the visitor does not come from one of these countries, the Adidas phishing scheme leaves the starting block.As you can see from the list above, Adidas is Questions in the ‘competition’After being redirected, visitors see a four-question survey. Whatever the victims answer, they are rewarded with a message saying that they are “qualified” to get a free pair of shoes. Of course, they are told that they must share this wonderful offer to their friends on WhatsApp to get the “prize”?.When tapping the WhatsApp share button, the victims see a list of their contacts, from which to choose further recipients of this “offer”. If they simply close this menu, it still counts as a “share”. If they repeat this routine 20 times, they’ll still be able to click the claim button without really sharing the “offer”. This behavior is possible because there is no way for the web page to know if the share was successful or not. Or even better, if you press your browser’s or mobile’s “return” button, you are redirected straight to the next stage.A chain of redirection is then performed to get the victim to another page. We have observed the following redirection chain:You are a ‘winner’ messageVictims have a few (obvious?) questions to answer and are also told they have to share the ad on Facebook… or not! Here again, if victims just click on the share button without actually sharing, they will still (supposedly) be able to claim their shoes for $1.Clicking the “claim for 1$” button results in victims following a new chain of redirections to the last stage of this scam. The following chain of redirection has been observed:A last form is presented to the victims, asking for their contact details. There’s also something worth noticing on this page: in the footer, one can see the following message:The completion of this purchase will subscribe you to the “organizejobs” service and they will charge you the cost of a premium account, which is $49.99 per month. This service has already been recognized as a scam since at least late 2017: see this article from The payment page is also misleading as it says “free trial organizejobs[.]net” but $50/month doesn’t sound “free”.Once again, there’s something fishy here. At the bottom of the page, one can see that the payment will be processed by organizejobs[.]net – which seems odd, as that site apparently has nothing to do with a shoe company.In the end, victims will pay $1 for a pair of shoes without being able to choose the model or the size, and which the previous experience of others suggests will never be received. On top of that, victims who didn’t notice the “TRIAL” subscription text will be charged $50/month 7 days after the payment.In 2003, Apart from the trivial research done by the miscreants behind these scams to find the right homoglyph, they didn’t go to great lengths to make their website look more legitimate. Here are some tips that should help you to recognize this kind of scam:In this kind of attack, there may be quite a few details that might arouse a potential victim’s suspicions. In this case, from the first page to the last page, there are a lot of things that don’t make sense:Additionally, since the homoglyph attack is a known issue (see This research demonstrates yet again that phishing attacks are still taking place and continuing to evolve. Of course, there are a lot of similar domains and domain name homoglyph attacks are unlikely to stop, but by being a bit careful it is possible to avoid falling for this kind of deceit.It’s not only web browsers that could prevent this kind of attack — as seen in this article, the medium used to spread this attack is a messaging application. This kind of application should show the Punycode syntax for URLs or at least let the user decide how they are displayed.If you receive this kind of message, don’t hesitate to report it. You can notify the abused brand and you can report phishing to ESET at 