---
layout: post
title: Are firms and regulators prepared for GDPR?
date: 2018-05-11 17:01:06
tourl: https://www.welivesecurity.com/2018/05/11/firms-regulators-prepared-gdpr/
tags: [GDPR,law]
---
The answer may hinge on if you’re a glass-half-full or glass-half-empty kind of person. While we’re at it, how about regulators’ level of preparedness, anyway?tttttttttttttttWith the enforcement of the General Data Protection Regulation (A total of 61 percent of UK-based firms said that they are or will be fully What’s the reason for non-compliance? That depends on whom you ask. In Europe, more than 60 percent of the respondents that will not be compliant blamed a lack of time or resources. Across the pond, the most frequent reason – for 40 percent of respondents – was simply that GDPR was not a priority for their organization.The survey polled 625 IT professionals in organizations in the United Kingdom, the rest of the EU, and in the United States in early April.Image credit: SpiceworksA not-too-dissimilar picture is actually painted when it comes to those that are supposed to oversee the implementation and enforcement of greater privacy protections.A Reuters More precisely, the regulators said that they lack the necessary funding or powers to fulfill their GDPR duties. The shortage of authority is often because national governments have yet to update their laws to incorporate the Europe-wide rules. With that in mind, most respondents said that they would investigate complaints “on merit”.In a nutshell, GDPR is intended to give power back to EU citizens over how their personal information is processed and used, including giving them “the right to be forgotten”. This means that individuals will be able to request that businesses delete their no longer necessary or accurate personal data. In addition, the law’s serious implications include data breach notification requirements and fines for non-compliance.We have previously covered the 