---
layout: post
title: ?Australia to force 'big four' to open banking data by July 2019
date: 2018-05-10 06:36:06
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/australia-to-force-big-four-to-open-banking-data-by-july-2019/
tags: [law]
---
 tAustralia's major banks will be forced to make banking data available to consumers from the start of the 2020 financial year, under a new open banking regime agreed upon by the federal government. tAgreeing to implement the recommendations made by a Review into Open Banking, conducted by law firm KingWood Mallesons, the government touted the new regime as having the potential to transform the competitive landscape in financial services and the way in which Australians interact with the banking system. tThe review on how to boost competition and innovation in the country's financial services sector in February made a total of 50 recommendations ont t tThe Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA), the National Australia Bank (NAB), the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group (ANZ), and Westpac currentlyt tIn announcing it would be implementing the recommendations from July 1, 2019, the Australian government said the regime will boast strong privacy protections and information security for customers' banking data. t"A key element of these protections is that only trusted and accredited recipients will be permitted to access data, only with customers' express consent and only for the purposes the customer has expressly permitted," Treasurer Scott Morrison said in a statement. tIt is expected Open Banking will be phased in with the aim that all major banks will make data available on credit and debit card, deposit, and transaction accounts by July 1, 2019, and mortgages by February 1, 2020. tData on all products recommended by the review -- including GST and tax accounts, foreign currency accounts, pensioner deeming accounts, and mortgages -- are to become available by July 1, 2020, by financial providers in the top tier.tAll remaining banking institutions will be required to implement Open Banking around 12 months after the major banks, with the government noting the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) will be empowered to adjust timeframes if necessary. tThe ACCC, alongside the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner (OAIC), has also been tasked with determining the rules of Open Banking, with the standards requested to include transfer, data, and security standards. tThe OAIC will specifically ensure that privacy protection is a fundamental feature of the system. tCSIRO's Data61 will also be appointed to perform the role of a Data Standards Body, developing technical standards for the system in collaboration with industry, fintechs, and consumer and privacy groups. tNAB on Thursday showed support for implementing Open Banking, saying the regime may introduce new ways for banks to compete. tCEO Andrew Thorburn said during a review of Australia's four major banks last year that while his bank was supportive of the concept, he wants the potential risks of opening up data to be clearly identified, as he is concerned over what thet t tAustralia's fintech scene is also relatively happy with the new regime; however the body representing Australia's fintech industry isn't impressed that the federal government decided to delay mortgage data access to February 2020. t"A government-backed open banking framework will be a game-changer for consumers and businesses, along with drive a new wave of fintech innovation and growth in Australia," FinTech Australia chair Stuart Stoyan said in a statement Thursday. tOpen Banking is being implemented as part of the country'st tThe Consumer Data Right will be established sector-by-sector, beginning with banking, energy, and telecommunications. tHanding overt tAU$20.2 million will be spent on the ACCC determining the costs and benefits of designating sectors to be subject to the Right, and developing and implementing the rules to govern the Right and the content of data standards; AU$12.9 million to OAIC to assess privacy impacts and ensure consistency of rules with thet t tThe Australian government's response to the Productivity Commission Data Availability and Use Inquiry has also revealed that it will be standing up a National Data Commissioner to oversee the sharing of data.t tThe Australian Privacy Foundation wants the government to develop security controls around sharing open data and provide the agency charged with investigating data misuse with 'adequate' resources. t tA review has requested that Australia's largest banks be ready to hand over customer data at request from the day an Open Banking regime becomes legislated. t tAustralia is charging headlong into a privacy disaster as government open data initiatives come online without considering how to properly implement privacy safeguards and data anonymity.