---
layout: post
title: Trump Kim summit: Whatever happens, North Korea-US cyberwar will rage on
date: 2018-06-12 21:00:54
tourl: /article/trump-kim-summit-whatever-happens-north-korea-us-cyberwar-will-rage-on/
tags: [China,law,hack,National Security Agency,NSA,exploit]
---
 t tttttThe leaders of the US and North Korea, President Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un, are due to meet tomorrow.Today's security threats have expanded in scope and seriousness. There can now be millions -- or even billions -- of dollars at risk when information security isn't handled properly. ttttWhether the summit succeeds or fails, both players will still indulge themselves in a disturbing trend: atThe United States and North Korea have never been the best of friends, to put it lightly. However, both countries have enough firepower -- both in the physical and digital realms -- tot tCyberattacks may not be on the summit's agenda, but digital weaponry can still be debilitating, and both countries have invested in training up thettttWe hear more about North Korea's generallyt ttttAs the time for the summit approaches, let's take a look at the US and North Korea's past relationship, hacking history, and virtual weapons of choice. ttttOnce unified under thettttFollowing the end of the second world war, US forcesttttUnification through nationwide elections was proposed in 1948 but a lack of trust on both sides meant this never took place. ttttSouth Korea declared its independence in 1948, and an incentivized push into industrialism has created the high-tech country we know today, which is home to some of the most advanced technology companies in the world. t ttttIn comparison, after the Soviets appointed Kim Il-Sung to a dynastic throne in the North, officially known as the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK), the country has gained the uncomplimentary nickname of the "Hermit Kingdom." ttttDefectors bring with them stories of a lack of freedom of movement,ttttHuman Rights Watch has described North Korea as "one of the most repressive authoritarian states in the world." The agency'st t ttttHowever, relations between the US and DPRK have been, in the past, almost unwaveringly hostile. There has beenttttNorth Korea has operated a nuclear program and performed tests for years. In 2002, the Bush Administration reportedly uncovered evidence of attttRepeated attempts at diplomacy between the US, China, North Korea, and other countries failed. DPRK moved forward with nuclear testing, much to the dismay of the international community. ttttIn 2017, the country fired over 20 missiles and conducted its sixth nuclear test, and one ballistic missile,t ttttIn turn, DPRK threatened to assault Guam, claiming the action would "send a serious warning signal to the US." ttttBack in September, US President Trump dubbed his North Korean counterpart as " ttttIn turn, Kim called Trump a " ttttAt this point in time, with many of us collectively holding our heads in our hands in disbelief at the childish behavior of country representatives with nuclear power in their grasp, the idea of the mudslingers shaking hands for a photo opportunity seemed impossible. ttttHowever, in a surprising move, Kim and Trump agreed to meet, leading to the formation of the anticipated Trump-Kim summit. ttttThe pair will have a one-on-one meeting with the help of translators, but not aides, in Singapore on Tuesday.ttttAn agreement between the two military powers not to launch us all into nuclear war can only be considered positive, but when it comes to cybersecurity and cyberwarfare, there are yet to be any guarantees on the table. ttttAfter all, cyberespionage and cyberattacks can be lucrative, destabilizing to rivals, a boon to intelligence gathering, and can -- in many ways -- help ruling powers achieve their aims covertly and quietly. ttttObjectively speaking, you wouldn't necessarily link North Korea to advanced hacking groups. ttttThe country's resources are limited, the core services we take for granted -- such as electricity -- are scarce unless you live in the country's capital, Pyongyang, and even then, thettttThere are only two main internet lines, through China and Russia, which connect North Korea to the rest of the world. Internet usage is heavily censored and controlled through the state'sttttSo how is it that the country is able to support advanced cyberespionage activities? ttttWarfare is not only won these days through rockets, diplomatic and economic muscle, or infantry stocks. Instead, in a digital world, information can hold the key to competitive advantage on the global platform. ttttAccording to Ross Rustici, senior director for intelligence research at Cybereason, as reported bytttt"[North Koreans] have proven time and again that they are very, very capable," the researcher said. ttttPriscilla Moriuchi, director of strategic threat development at Recorded Future, told the publication that the country runs a "cyber training pipeline" designed to crank out hackers. tttt"They would identify kids with promise in math, or science and technology in middle school, send them to one or two particular middle schools, that filter into one or two universities," the security expert said. ttttPyongyang's Kim Il-sung University and Kim Chaek University of Technology are believed to be the training grounds for the country's hacking teams. Once qualified, many go on to join what is known as Bureau 121, part of North Korea's Reconnaissance General Bureau. ttttMany of the best and brightest end up overseas, such as in China, India, and Cambodia. ttttA defector and former hacker for DPRKttttWherever they may be, North Korean hackers, backed by the state and behaving based on the DPRK ruling party's wishes, are believed to be responsible for a vast array of bold attacks in the name of money, or the reputation of the regime. Some of these include, but are not limited to: tNorth Korean threat actors, believed to number in the thousands, often create their own malware tools through modular designs but have also been known to rip software source code apart in order to rebuild it in North Korea's image. ttttAside from Red Star -- which looks suspiciously similar to Apple'sttttVersions of the apparent antivirus in the wild which contain hidden Trojans for cyberespionage purposes have been recorded. ttttNorth Korean threat actors, such as the Reaper APT ( tt ttttThe US is no angel, either, when it comes to cyberespionage. The country has a long history of covert and clandestine activity -- against not only rival countries but its own citizens -- which has simply spread to embrace cyber warfare. t ttttThe US may not have to hide its operations so fiercely, especially if such actions are deemed to be in the interest of "national security," but there are many incidents -- such as those listed below -- which may be dubious when considered in the balance between national security and individual rights to privacy. ttttThe skills of US law enforcement to hack computer systems have evolved beyond the use of keyloggers to compromising Tor, which is no mean feat. However, in the same breath, technological advances -- such as the use of encryption -- has made life difficult for US teams. ttttLikely to the US government's chagrin, its own mass data collection activities, implemented through the US National Security Agency (NSA) and leaked by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden, eventtttNonetheless, the US government pours vast resources into strengthening its cyber warfare capabilities. ttttNothing is off the table. Keyloggers, covert spyware and data collection, and the use of zero-day vulnerabilities for the US government's own purposes are all fair game. t ttttWe have seen a glimpse of what the country is capable of through the treasure trove of surveillance tools, documents, and exploit notesttttThe leak included Windows zero-days such asttttWhile North Korea appears to rely on ripping source code from software to create its own versions of modular software, the US relies on finding -- and keeping quiet about --ttttThese same vulnerabilities can be used against its own citizens by homegrown hackers and criminals. ttttBoth groups develop their own malware strains and covert tools, and both are dangerous to the overall concept of security and privacy. ttttWe will have to see the result of the summit to ascertain whether or not this is the case. Either way, should a rapport be established between these two unlikely characters, discussions, one day, will likely also include the pressing matter of cyberespionage and cyberattacks as a whole. t ttttNo country is innocent of such tactics, and state-sponsored attacks from every corner have the capability to take down our core services, our financial systems, and devastate our economies. ttttGovernments may overstep the mark, but these are the same individuals which choose whether or not they have -- and what the consequences may be. tt ttThe deal with ZTE was a 'personal favour' to the Chinese president, White House trade adviser Peter Navarro has said, and it boosted 'goodwill' for the North Korea summit. t tt ttNorth Korea is a bizarre country that almost seems frozen in time -- a bizarre, frozen-in-time, armed-to-the-teeth, crazy-dangerous country. We take a deep look at the early cyberwar efforts of an increasingly aggressive cyberwar player. t tt ttUnlike nuclear weapons, cyberweapons can be proliferated more quickly and the threat from accidentally setting them off is even greater. t