---
layout: post
title: India's digital Universal ID program is deeply flawed, say critics
date: 2018-07-02 01:00:28
tourl: /article/indias-digital-universal-id-program-is-deeply-flawed-say-critics/
tags: [act,Biometric]
---
 tWhen the Indian government embarked on the plan to issue a compulsory nationwide universal identification (UIDAI) and accompanying digital payment system, the idea was that technology would act as an efficient tool for service delivery as well as a panacea for rampant corruption. tDelivery of food and other resources, including payment transfers, by the Indian government has been the backbone of a government system that attempts to alleviate the stresses faced by a large, impoverished rural population. This would now be enhanced by a superbly efficient system was the thinking. tInstead,tEconomist Reetika Khera has been a strident critic of the program and in hertAlso, physical presence of the beneficiary is required for authentication today versus the past when a relative or neighbour could be dispatched to avail of the benefit, said Khera, which means that the old and infirm are most vulnerable. There have been instances where beneficiaries havetKhera said that she along with several economists conducted a survey of 900 households in an impoverished state in Northern India called Jharkhand comparing villages that did and did not have the Aadhar system in place for buying grain. What they discovered shocked them. The villages where the Aadhar system was compulsory had a failure rate in buying grain five times (20 percent) that of those villages where it was not (4 percent). tPlus, Khera said that no evidence exists that Aadhaar has stymied corruption. According to calculations by Khera and her colleagues, the level of skimming by those doling out the benefits was the same (7 percent) proving that no large scale instances of identity fraud exist in rural India. tThe other serious issue concerns data security. Last November, the UIDAI officetYet, antAs ZDNettWhat is infinitely worse is that the government's UIDAI department first issued a strong denial of any such breach, something that is turning out to be a typical response to these instances by this government. "There is no truth in this story as there has been absolutely no breach of UIDAI's Aadhaar database. Aadhaar remains safe and secure," the department said in a Twitter statement. It then took several weeks to fix the flaw. tWith the Indian government increasingly insisting on an Aadhar number for even basic things like a phone connection or a marriage registration -- a fundamentally unconstitutional diktat -- coupled with its arrogant, head-in-the-sand attitude and inability to keep private data secure, Indian citizens are looking at catastrophic consequencesdown the digital road ahead. If the tender is successful, it could be a disaster for the privacy of Indian citizens.Opinion: While the app has been widely used in the past to goad religious groups into violent acts, the dissemination of deeply bigoted fake news during the state elections in Karnataka is a small example of how technology is destined to adversely affect the 2019 federal elections.It isn't so surprising that India, with its multitude of political parties, was a perfect place for the UK firm to thrive.Proposed laws are touted to reduce identity crime, prevent terrorism, and keep people safe at this year's Gold Coast Commonwealth Games.According to a recent survey, 7% of respondents said they are comfortable using biometric authentication today, and 87% say they'll be comfortable with it in the future.