---
layout: post
title: Why cryptocurrency mining malware is the new ransomware
date: 2018-06-28 15:00:45
tourl: /article/why-cryptocurrency-mining-malware-is-the-new-ransomware/
tags: [attack]
---
If 2017 wasThe premise is relatively simple: attackers infect a PC,Outside of extreme scenarios when Cryptocurrency mining has become aMonero, in particularSo perhaps it's no surpise that the number of cryptojacking attacks has continued to grow over the course of this year with figures in the newThe reason for the big jump is that cryptojacking is a simple but efficient attack -- with the added bonus of being far more subtle than ransomware, while also offering the potential for long-term illicit earning. "Perpetrators are focused on one main goal: monetising their criminal activity quickly, with very little effort and using as few middlemen as possible. They want to execute their crimes in the shortest time possible and with the least risk of discovery," Christiaan Beek, lead scientist and senior principal engineer at McAfee told ZDNet."The rise in these attacks shows the extent to which cybercriminals are increasingly focused on making a quick profit and willing to target any vulnerability to do so. Bad actors are demonstrating a remarkable level of technical agility and innovation with many attack schemes being tweaked in creative and complex ways to remain profitable," he added. It isn't only McAfee which has warned about the growing danger of cryptojacking attacks -- the rise of coin miners features prominently inOf those using Kaspersky products on Windows systems, 205,000 users experienced cryptocurrency miners in 2013. By the end of 2017, 2.7 million users had experienced an attempted cryptojacking attack. That was a significant 1.5 times more than the number of attacks in the previous year -- and the threat is only going to keep growing. "While ransomware has provided a potentially large but one-off income for its cybercriminals, miners will provide a lower, but longer lasting one," warns the Kaspersky report, adding, "Miners will keep spreading across the globe, attracting more people". And the impact will only get worse once attackers find a means of efficiently attacking smartphone operating systems with miners."Once criminals find a technological solution that makes the profits from mining on mobile devices equivalent to those from mining on PCs, mobile mining will quickly become equal," said the report. But despite the stealthy nature of cryptocurrency mining attacks, it is still a form of malware, which means if organisations take the correct approach to security, they can avoid falling victim to this power-draining menace. "No matter their size, they must all do their due diligence. This means making sure that tools and systems can work together and removing siloed security teams," said Beek.