---
layout: post
title: ?Australia's online safety legislation to be probed
date: 2018-06-26 03:00:52
tourl: /article/australias-online-safety-legislation-to-be-probed/
tags: [act]
---
 tThe federal government will be looking into the state of online safety in Australia, announcing two independent reviews of existing legislation in a bid to ensure it remains "effective and relevant". tFormer Australian Public Service Commissioner Lynelle Briggs will lead the pair of reviews that will specifically be probing thet tA statement from Australian Communications Minister Mitch Fifield said Briggs will examine whether the provisions in the Online Safety Act remain fit-for-purpose, while she will also simultaneously review Schedules 5 and 7 of thet tThe t"The reviews will ensure we continue to have the right controls and support systems in place to protect Australians against harmful online content and ensure people can confidently participate in the online environment," Fifield said. t"We are focused on ensuring we have the right measures in place to address illegal or offensive content, and that the Office of the eSafety Commissioner has the appropriate powers to help Australians if and when they need it." tAs part of its review, the federal government is seeking submissions on Australia's online safety regulatory framework, including the operation and effectiveness of the Office of the eSafety Commissioner and the Online Content Scheme. tAs a result of the consultation, it is expected the submissions will help inform the independent reviews to ensure there are proper legislative controls and support systems in place to protect Australians from harm online. tIt is expected the reviews will be completed by the end of September 2018 and a report provided to Fifield shortly thereafter. tThe Office of the eSafety Commissioner was established as part of the Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA)t tThe eSafety Commissioner,tThe eSafety Commissioner also administers a complaints system for cyberbullying material, and has the power tot t tThe eSafety Commissioner's remit has been expanded beyond children to provide reporting and supporting mechanisms for all Australians online. t tThe Office of the Australian Information Commissioner will be conducting assessments of government agencies over the coming year to confirm their compliance under privacy obligations. t tThis simple advice will help to protect you against hackers and governmentsurveillance. t tAnthony Grieco, senior director and trust strategy officer at Cisco's Security and Trust Organization, explains how companies can improve cybersecurity with these easy tips.