---
layout: post
title: FireEye Refutes Claims That It Hacked Back a Chinese APT
date: 2018-06-25 22:00:39
tourl: https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/fireeye-refutes-claims-that-it-hacked-back-a-chinese-apt/
tags: [FIREEYE,China,law,hack]
---
US cyber-security firm FireEye has denied claims that have been ramping up on social media all last week about illegally "hacking back" a Chinese nation-state cyber-espionage group.The claims and social media discussions started after the publication of "In the book, Sanger recounted a series of events from 2013, in the lead up to FireEye publishing a report called "At the time, the report was a landmark moment in the cyber intelligence community, as it exposed the activities of Chinese hackers in a depth of details like never before, even going as far as pinning the hacking on Unit 61398 of China's People Liberation Army (PLA), an attribution level unheard at the time.But according to Sanger's book, FireEye might have obtained all these details while "hacking back," a term used to describe the practice of using offensive hacking techniques to breach an attacker's systems to determine his identity, what he stole, and even destroy some of the stolen data in order to protect the victim. The technique is illegal, under the terms of US law, and limited to approved US military personnel only.In his book, Sanger claims Mandiant (former cyber-security firm behind the report and later purchased by FireEye a year later in 2014), allowed him to sit down with its security researchers during one of these incidents.Passages from Sanger's book are available below, as per But in a FireEye says Sanger never observed real-time hacking, but only pre-recorded videos of APT1 (PLA Unit 61398) operators interacting with computers on the network of compromised companies.Furthermore, FireEye says it obtained permission from these companies to leave the compromised PCs intact and observe what the hackers were doing, and that at no point its employees used offensive hacking techniques.The company released one of the videos they recorded of APT1 hackers active on one of these compromised PCs.Both sides of the events present valid scenarios. While being illegal, cyber-security firms have been known to hack back many times before. No firm in its right mind will acknowledge it, especially when the hacked back target is the Chinese military and not some random BEC scammer. The political implications are far-reaching.But FireEye's explanation also holds water, as it's easy to misinterpret an RDP session for a live hacking op, especially if you're not told what you're watching. Although, one minor detail remains unaccounted for...Sanger's description of what he says Mandiant did vs. what Mandiant says it did. Sanger implies he saw videos of Chinese hackers wearing leather jackets and undershirts - that's not in video Mandiant published. Are there other videos? Did Sanger misinterpret? So many questions. 