---
layout: post
title: Researchers reveal flaws that may expose encrypted emails to prying eyes
date: 2018-05-15 17:01:12
tourl: https://www.welivesecurity.com/2018/05/15/researchers-reveal-flaws-encrypted-emails/
tags: [exploit]
---
A team of academics says that, if exploited, the vulnerabilities can reveal the plain text of encrypted emails, including those sent years agotttttttttttttttThe widely-used “In a nutshell, EFAIL abuses active content of HTML emails, for example externally loaded images or styles, to exfiltrate plain text through requested URLs,” the researchers wrote on In order to exploit the weaknesses, miscreants first need to access the end-to-end encrypted email message. This means intercepting it in transit or stealing it, for instance, from a compromised email account, client computer or backup system. Then, the attackers need to alter the email by adding custom HTML code into it, and send the manipulated email to the victim. The victim’s email client decrypts the email and, given its HTML rendering capability, it is tricked by the malicious code into sending the email in plain text back to the attackers. Even messages sent years ago are vulnerable.The team also said that their proof-of-concept exploit has been shown to be successful against 25 out of 35 tested S/MIME email clients and 10 out of 28 OpenPGP clients. The flaws affect email applications such as Apple Mail with GPGTools encryption plug-in, Mozilla Thunderbird with the Enigmail plug-in, and Outlook with the Gpg4win encryption package. The academics said that, in keeping with the principles of responsible disclosure, they have reported their findings to email providers concerned.They also averred that there are no The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), a US-based digital rights group, had reviewed the research’s findings before they were published. On Sunday, it released a series of The research attracted a great deal of publicity even Meanwhile, the findings have stirred some controversy, including over how realistic the threat truly is. For example, Robert J. Hansen of Enigmail In a similar vein, Werner Koch, the man behind GNU Privacy Guard (GnuPG/GPG), which is an implementation of OpenPGP, In fact, Cryptographer and professor at Johns Hopkins University Matthew Green Cryptography expert Bruce Schneier 