---
layout: post
title: German police raid cyber-privacy groups
date: 2018-07-06 00:02:11
tourl: https://www.cyberscoop.com/german-police-raid-digital-privacy-technology-groups/?category_news=technology
tags: [Law]
---
A suite of internet privacy-enabling tools is at the center of a storm brewing in Germany over a controversial law enforcement investigation that’s already netted police mountains of personal and financial information on several different anti-censorship groups. These pro-online-anonymity, nonprofit organizations are now criticizing German police who, for their part, have mostly stayed silent on the operations.On June 20, German police raided homes and offices for the group Zwiebelfreunde (translated as Onion Friends), an organization affiliated with the Police seized a trove of electronics and documents. But members of Zwiebelfreunde say they have no connection to the activist blog.The reasoning for why police raided Zwiebelfreunde, even though the apparent target was Krawalltouristen, is unclear. The authorities remain silent, but the main links are that Zwiebelfreunde handles European donations for the privacy-minded email service RiseUp, which is also used by Krawalltouristen. It’s a link that’s been described as “tenuous” and ““The German police were interested in finding the authors of said blog,” according to a German police now likely have access to identifying data for anyone who donated to Torservers, RiseUp or the anonymity-focused operating system Tails, Zwiebelfreunde claimed.The incident has prompted backlash in Germany as well as the English-speaking world including from the Electronic Frontier Foundation, the Freedom of the Press Foundation and the Tor Project.As a partner organisation of We suspect that the real motives of the Munich public prosecutor are intimidation and illegal information gathering about freedom activists.— Digitalcourage e.V. (@digitalcourage) A privacy group running Tor relays and exits for donors and handling European donations for Riseup was raided by German police. The excuse? An unrelated blog that uses Riseup email called for violence at an upcoming right-wing event. Tenuous. — The Tor Project (@torproject) Unacceptable: German police raided the homes of members of a digital privacy group, all because of the email address of an unrelated blog — Freedom of the Press (@FreedomofPress) The Members of the Zwiebelfreunde project said Thursday that police had raided their Dresden office and the homes of three members located in the cities of Augsburg, Jena, and Berlin.A CCC 