---
layout: post
title: White Hat Spoofs 2FA, Sends User to Phishing Page
date: 2018-05-11 16:36:06
tourl: https://www.infosecurity-magazine.com:443/news/white-hat-spoofs-2fa-sends-user-to/
tags: [attack]
---
Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.Social engineering tactics are the bread and butter of hackers. Preying on trust, malicious actors are able to lure users into sharing personal information, even login credentials.White hat hackers will often leverage these same tactics for good, which Kevin Mitnick, chief hacking officer, When 2FA is enabled and a user attempts to log in to a website, they first have to enter a code. As an additional layer of security intended to verify the authenticity of the user, that code is sent via email or SMS. Using a tool called Despite being an additional layer of security, 2FA is vulnerable to attackers like any other technology. "This attack demonstrates that even multifactor authentication has inherent weaknesses. A more reliable 2FA approach includes push notifications via the authentication app itself, as well as ‘what-you-have’ hardware devices like a Yubikey," said Zack Allen, manager of threat operations, "2FA is an excellent first step in ensuring that accounts are not hijacked," said Allen, "but as demonstrated in this example, attacks like phishing, social engineering, and spoofing still have serious consequences. People and businesses alike are looking to more comprehensive education- and technology-based solutions for staying safe online."Even with controls like 2FA in place, businesses and individuals need to be wary of the security implications of networks, which is why security awareness education is critical. Users need to keep abreast of possible risks.Because the issues demonstrated have been well known for at least a decade, many, including NIST, have recommended that organizations not trust SMS based 2FA, said Steve Manzuik, director of security research, "Even in the scenario where a one-time passcode (OTP) is issued, it can be phished by even low-skilled attackers. This demonstrates why SMS/OTP