---
layout: post
title: TLBleed is latest Intel CPU flaw to surface: But don't expect it to be fixed
date: 2018-06-26 15:00:31
tourl: /article/tlbleed-is-latest-intel-cpu-flaw-to-surface-but-dont-expect-it-to-be-fixed/
tags: [attack,exploit]
---
 t tIntel won't be patching a newly revealed side-channel vulnerability in its CPUs, even though it could be used to leak encryption keys for signing a message. tThe flaw, which will be presented at the Black Hat USA 2018 conference, is why OpenBSD recentlytThe OpenBSD project's chief, Theo de Raadt, said he dropped support for the feature after viewing the paper from researchers at the Systems and Network Security Group at Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. tThe RegistertThe researchers argue that their attack, dubbed TLBleed, is able to leak the keys from another program in no less than 98 percent of tests, depending on the Intel CPU architecture. The leak happens when the key is being used to sign data. tAs the attack relies on Intel's Hyper-Threading, this side-channel flaw differs from Spectre and Meltdown, which exploit speculative execution. Intel's Hyper-Threading technology is available on Intel Core, Core vPro, Core M, and Xeon processors. tIn atIf Hyper-Threading is enabled, a single core can execute multiple threads simultaneously for performance gains, but that core also shares the same memory caches and TLB. tThe attack makes it possible for one thread to see how another accesses the CPU through TLB and use this information to work out secrets from another program stored in shared RAM. t"Our TLBleed exploit successfully leaks a 256-bit EdDSA key from cryptographic signing code, which would be safe from cache attacks with cache isolation turned on, but would no longer be safe with TLBleed. We achieve a 98 percent success rate after just a single observation of signing operation on a co-resident hyperthread and just 17 seconds of analysis time." tThe researchers say their attack is able to extract this key while a program is signing a message with the libgcrypt cryptographic library. tHowever, to exploit the flaw, an attacker would already need to have malware running on a target system or be logged in. But the vulnerability could pose a threat to virtual machines on a public cloud, which could be exploited from another instance on the same machine. tIntel appears unlikely to patch the bug and did not award the researchers payment under its side-channel bug bounty. The company has said its cache attack protections are sufficient to block TLBleed attacks. tHowever, Ban Gras, one of the researchers behind TLBleed,t tIntel has announced that there's yet another CPU security bug in its Core-based microprocessors. t tThe enterprise software giant is working on Spectre fixes for Solaris on Sparc V9. t tIntel's Spectre variant 4 patch will be off by default, but users who turn it on are likely to see slower performance. t t t tReports are emerging of eight new 'Spectre-class' security CPU vulnerabilities. t tA new variant of Spectre can expose the contents of memory that normally can't be accessed by the OS kernel. t tMicrosoft releases new Windows updates to address the Spectre variant 2 flaw affecting Intel chips. t tAMD has released microcode updates for Spectre variant 2 that require Microsoft's latest Windows 10 patch. t tA handful of CPU families that Intel was due to patch will now forever remain vulnerable. t t t t t tIntel has listed a range of CPUs released between 2007 and 2011 that will not receive a firmware update to help guard against Spectre-related exploits. t tSince the beginning of 2018, the number of cases has risen from three to 32.