---
layout: post
title: Adobe Patch Tuesday Is Out With Fixes for Flash Player, Acrobat, Reader, More
date: 2018-07-10 00:02:12
tourl: https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/adobe-patch-tuesday-is-out-with-fixes-for-flash-player-acrobat-reader-more/
tags: [Exploitation,SSRF]
---
Adobe has published its monthly security updates for the month of July 2018, and this month. This month, Adobe's security team patched vulnerabilities in products such as Flash Player (multimedia player), Experience Manager (enterprise CMS), Connect (web conferencing software), and Acrobat and Reader (PDF readers/editors).In total, Adobe fixed 110 security flaws, broken down as follows: 2 in Adobe Flash Player, 3 in Adobe Experience Manager, 3 in Adobe Connect, and 102 in Adobe Acrobat and Adobe Reader.Adobe has released security updates for Adobe Flash Player for Windows, macOS, Linux and Chrome OS. These updates address critical vulnerabilities in Adobe Flash Player 30.0.0.113 and earlier versions.  Successful exploitation could lead to arbitrary code execution in the context of the current user. Adobe has released security updates for Adobe Experience Manager. These updates resolve three Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) vulnerabilities rated ImportanAEM 6.2 AEM 6.3    Server-Side Request Forgery    Sensitive Information disclosure    Important    CVE-2018-12809    AEM 6.4 and earlier  Adobe has released a security update for Adobe Connect.  This update resolves an important authentication bypass vulnerability (CVE-2018-4994), which could result in sensitive information disclosure if successfully exploited.  This update also resolves an important session management vulnerability due to inadequate validation of Connect meeting session tokens.  Finally, the Connect add-in installer prior to 9.7 insecurely loads DLL files, which could be abused to escalate local privileges. Adobe has released security updates for Adobe Acrobat and Reader for Windows and macOS. These updates address?critical and important?vulnerabilities.  Successful exploitation could lead to arbitrary code execution in the context of the current user. 