---
layout: post
title: Windows 10 Insider Build 17704 Is Now Available. Here’s Whats New!
date: 2018-06-27 19:55:27
tourl: https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/microsoft/windows-10-insider-build-17704-is-now-available-here-s-whats-new/
tags: [exploit]
---
Microsoft just released Windows 10 Insider Preview Build 17704 (Redstone 5) to Windows Insiders in the Fast and Skip Ahead Rings. Windows 10 Insider Preview Build 17704 comes with a huge amount of improvements and new features that include ones for Microsoft Edge, new Skype experience, improved Diagnostic Data Viewer, and more.Microsoft is introducing a new Edge “BETA” icon that will only be seen in Insider preview builds.Microsoft explains that the new icon is more user-friendly as it will differentiate between the public version of Microsoft Edge and Edge preview.Microsoft is also bringing Fluent Design's new depth effect to the tab bar on Edge browser. Microsoft Edge settings panel is being revamped, and it's now easier to navigate. Microsoft says that the Settings panel is redesigned to match the look and feel of Edge hub, and it breaks Settings out into subpages by category, for a quicker navigation.The Redesigned “…” menu also comes with common commands like “New tab” and “New window”. Microsoft is allowing more customization than ever, that means you'll be able to customize the icons that appear in the new Microsoft Edge toolbar.And last but not the least, you can finally control whether media can play automaticallyMicrosoft is today revamping the Skype UWP app experience on Windows 10. The new app offers improvedMicrosoft is updating the Task Manager with two new columns "Power usage" and "Power usage trend" in the Processes tab. Microsoft says that the new Task Manager will show energy impact of the running process, and it's a useful feature to find the apps and services using maximum power. The Power usage trend column provides a power usage trend over 2 mins for each running apps and services.Microsoft is also launching a new viewing mode that uses the device's light sensor to detect the ambient light and improve the visibility of your video when you are in a very bright environment. It's worth noting that the feature works only on devices that have a light sensor. If your device meets the requirements, you can turn on “Adjust video based on lighting” option in SettingsAppsVideo playback.Windows 10 now comes with Typing Insights, which will show you the stats about how the AI technology has been helping you type with efficiency, and apparently, it works only on devices with the software keyboard. You can go to SettingsDevicesTyping and click on “View typing insights” link to see them. Basically, it shows stats about features such as text predictions.Microsoft is fully committed to the privacy and security of the users, and the company is introducing an improved Windows Diagnostic Data Viewer that lets you understand when your data is collected and much more.It also lets you see the Common Data, Device Connectivity and Configuration, certain browsing history and much more.This build allows you to enable a new security feature called "Block suspicious behaviors". When enabled, it will enable the Windows Defender Exploit Exploit Guard to all users.